1	bayesian	2015	Friston, K; Frith, C	A Duet for one	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	This paper considers communication in terms of inference about the behaviour of others (and our own behaviour). It is based on the premise that our sensations are largely generated by other agents like ourselves. This means, we are trying to infer how our sensations are caused by others, while they are trying to infer our behaviour: for example, in the dialogue between two speakers. We suggest that the infinite regress induced by modelling another agent - who is modelling you - can be finessed if you both possess the same model. In other words, the sensations caused by others and oneself are generated by the same process. This leads to a view of communication based upon a narrative that is shared by agents who are exchanging sensory signals. Crucially, this narrative transcends agency and simply involves intermittently attending to and attenuating sensory input. Attending to sensations enables the shared narrative to predict the sensations generated by another (i.e. to listen), while attenuating sensory input enables one to articulate the narrative (i.e. to speak). This produces a reciprocal exchange of sensory signals that, formally, induces a generalised synchrony between internal (neuronal) brain states generating predictions in both agents. We develop the arguments behind this perspective, using an active (Bayesian) inference framework and offer some simulations (of birdsong) as proof of principle. (C) 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.orgilicenses/by/3.0/).
2	bayesian	2007	Rao, RPN; Shon, AP; Meltzoff, AN	A Bayesian model of imitation in infants and robots	IMITATION AND SOCIAL LEARNING IN ROBOTS, HUMANS AND ANIMALS: BEHAVIOURAL, SOCIAL AND COMMUNICATIVE DIMENSIONS	0
3	bayesian	2014	Diaconescu, AO; Mathys, C; Weber, LAE; Daunizeau, J; Kasper, L; Lomakina, EI; Fehr, E; Stephan, KE	Inferring on the Intentions of Others by Hierarchical Bayesian Learning	PLOS COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY	Inferring on others' (potentially time-varying) intentions is a fundamental problem during many social transactions. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we applied computational modeling to behavioral data from an economic game in which 16 pairs of volunteers (randomly assigned to "player'' or "adviser'' roles) interacted. The player performed a probabilistic reinforcement learning task, receiving information about a binary lottery from a visual pie chart. The adviser, who received more predictive information, issued an additional recommendation. Critically, the game was structured such that the adviser's incentives to provide helpful or misleading information varied in time. Using a meta-Bayesian modeling framework, we found that the players' behavior was best explained by the deployment of hierarchical learning: they inferred upon the volatility of the advisers' intentions in order to optimize their predictions about the validity of their advice. Beyond learning, volatility estimates also affected the trial-by-trial variability of decisions: participants were more likely to rely on their estimates of advice accuracy for making choices when they believed that the adviser's intentions were presently stable. Finally, our model of the players' inference predicted the players' interpersonal reactivity index (IRI) scores, explicit ratings of the advisers' helpfulness and the advisers' self-reports on their chosen strategy. Overall, our results suggest that humans (i) employ hierarchical generative models to infer on the changing intentions of others, (ii) use volatility estimates to inform decision-making in social interactions, and (iii) integrate estimates of advice accuracy with non-social sources of information. The Bayesian framework presented here can quantify individual differences in these mechanisms from simple behavioral readouts and may prove useful in future clinical studies of maladaptive social cognition.
4	bayesian	2013	Joffily, M; Coricelli, G	Emotional Valence and the Free-Energy Principle	PLOS COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY	The free-energy principle has recently been proposed as a unified Bayesian account of perception, learning and action. Despite the inextricable link between emotion and cognition, emotion has not yet been formulated under this framework. A core concept that permeates many perspectives on emotion is valence, which broadly refers to the positive and negative character of emotion or some of its aspects. In the present paper, we propose a definition of emotional valence in terms of the negative rate of change of free-energy over time. If the second time-derivative of free-energy is taken into account, the dynamics of basic forms of emotion such as happiness, unhappiness, hope, fear, disappointment and relief can be explained. In this formulation, an important function of emotional valence turns out to regulate the learning rate of the causes of sensory inputs. When sensations increasingly violate the agent's expectations, valence is negative and increases the learning rate. Conversely, when sensations increasingly fulfil the agent's expectations, valence is positive and decreases the learning rate. This dynamic interaction between emotional valence and learning rate highlights the crucial role played by emotions in biological agents' adaptation to unexpected changes in their world.
5	bayesian	2013	Avgar, T; Deardon, R; Fryxell, JM	An empirically parameterized individual based model of animal movement, perception, and memory	ECOLOGICAL MODELLING	Our capacity to predict patterns of animal movement behavior is limited by our understanding of the underlying cognitive process. Determining what an animal knows about its environment, and how that information is translated into specific movement behaviors, is a conceptual challenge faced by movement ecologists. The modeling framework presented here is designed to evaluate the likelihood of alternative processes of perception, memory and decision making, based on readily available positional data and environmental metrics. The model is based on a flexible cognitive algorithm that provides the framework for an adaptive movement kernel. This enables a straightforward methodology for estimating key parameters for sensory perception, memory and movement while providing testable predictions of animal resource selection and space use patterns. In addition to describing the model and explaining the underlying logic, we demonstrate its parameterization potential using simulated data and investigate the robustness of its predictions over a wide range of temporal and spatial sampling scales. We show that the model can reproduce descriptive probes of movement paths with little sensitivity to the scale at which these paths were sampled and we discuss the merits of our approach in the context of movement-and cognitive-ecology and evolution. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
6	bayesian	2011	Ashourian, P; Loewenstein, Y	Bayesian Inference Underlies the Contraction Bias in Delayed Comparison Tasks	PLOS ONE	Delayed comparison tasks are widely used in the study of working memory and perception in psychology and neuroscience. It has long been known, however, that decisions in these tasks are biased. When the two stimuli in a delayed comparison trial are small in magnitude, subjects tend to report that the first stimulus is larger than the second stimulus. In contrast, subjects tend to report that the second stimulus is larger than the first when the stimuli are relatively large. Here we study the computational principles underlying this bias, also known as the contraction bias. We propose that the contraction bias results from a Bayesian computation in which a noisy representation of a magnitude is combined with a-priori information about the distribution of magnitudes to optimize performance. We test our hypothesis on choice behavior in a visual delayed comparison experiment by studying the effect of (i) changing the prior distribution and (ii) changing the uncertainty in the memorized stimulus. We show that choice behavior in both manipulations is consistent with the performance of an observer who uses a Bayesian inference in order to improve performance. Moreover, our results suggest that the contraction bias arises during memory retrieval/decision making and not during memory encoding. These results support the notion that the contraction bias illusion can be understood as resulting from optimality considerations.
7	bayesian	2007	Buchwald, P	A general bilinear model to describe growth or decline time profiles	MATHEMATICAL BIOSCIENCES	Linear models are widely used because of their unrivaled simplicity, but they cannot be applied for data that have a turning- or rate-change-point, even if the data show good linearity sufficiently far from this point. To describe such bilinear-type data, a completely generalized version of a linearized biexponential model (LinBiExp) is proposed here to make possible smooth and fully parametrizable transitions between two linear segments while still maintaining a clear connection with the linear models. Applications and brief conclusions are presented for various time profiles of biological and medical interest including growth profiles, such as those of human stature, agricultural crops and fruits, multicellular tumor spheroids, single fission yeast cells, or even labor productivity, and decline profiles, such as age-effects on cognition in patients who develop dementia and lactation yields in dairy cattle. In all these cases, quantitative model selection criteria such as the Akaike and the Schwartz Bayesian information criteria indicated the superiority of the bilinear model compared to adequate less parametrized alternatives such as linear, parabolic, exponential, or classical growth (e.g., logistic, Gompertz, Weibull, and Richards) models. LinBiExp provides a versatile and useful five-parameter bilinear functional form that is convenient to implement, is suitable for full optimization, and uses intuitive and easily interpretable parameters. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
8	bayesian	2006	Bhattacharya, S; Ho, MHR; Purkayastha, S	A Bayesian approach to modeling dynamic effective connectivity with fMRI data	NEUROIMAGE	A state-space modeling approach for examining dynamic relationship between multiple brain regions was proposed in Ho, Ombao and Shumway (Ho, M.R., Ombao, H., Shumway, R., 2005. A State-Space Approach to Modelling Brain Dynamics to Appear in Statistica Sinica). Their approach assumed that the quantity representing the influence of one neuronal system over another, or effective connectivity, is time-invariant. However, more and more empirical evidence suggests that the connectivity between brain areas may be dynamic which calls for temporal modeling of effective connectivity. A Bayesian approach is proposed to solve this problem in this paper. Our approach first decomposes the observed time series into measurement error and the BOLD (blood oxygenation level-dependent) signals. To capture the complexities of the dynamic processes in the brain, region-specific activations are subsequently modeled, as a linear function of the BOLD signals history at other brain regions. The coefficients in these linear functions represent effective connectivity between the regions under consideration. They are further assumed to follow a random walk process so to characterize the dynamic nature of brain connectivity. We also consider the temporal dependence that may be present in the measurement errors. ML-11 method (Berger, J.O., 1985. Statistical Decision Theory and Bayesian Analysis (2nd ed.). Springer, New York) was employed to estimate the hyperparameters in the model and Bayes factor was used to compare among competing models. Statistical inference of the effective connectivity coefficients was based on their posterior distributions and the corresponding Bayesian credible regions (Carlin, B.P., Louis, T.A., 2000. Bayes and Empirical Bayes Methods for Data Analysis (2nd ed.). Chapman and Hall, Boca Raton). The proposed method was applied to a functional magnetic resonance imaging data set and results support the theory of attentional control network and demonstrate that this network is dynamic in nature. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
9	bayesian	2004	Lee, MD	A Bayesian analysis of retention functions	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	A long standing goal of quantitative research in cognitive psychology has been to provide a lawful description of the retention of information over time. While a number of theoretical alternatives for a retention function have been developed, their empirical evaluation has almost exclusively relied on their ability to fit experimental data. This has meant that the issue of model complexity, which considers the number of parameter in a model and the functional form of parameter interaction, has generally not been considered in a rigorous way. This paper develops a Bayesian method for comparing retention models that naturally considers the competing demands of goodness-of-fit and complexity. We first implement the Bayesian method using numerical techniques, highlighting the basic properties of the method and showing, in particular, how assumptions about the precision of the data affect the inferences that are drawn. We then develop an analytic Bayesian method, based on the Laplacian approximation, that offers some theoretical insights into the inherent complexities of different retention functions, and has the practical advantage of being computationally efficient. We demonstrate both methods by evaluating linear, hyperbolic, exponential, logarithmic and power retention functions against the collection of data sets considered by Rubin and Wenzel (1996). (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
10	bayesian	2014	FitzGerald, THB; Dolan, RJ; Friston, KJ	Model averaging, optimal inference, and habit formation	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Postulating that the brain performs approximate Bayesian inference generates principled and empirically testable models of neuronal function-the subject of much current interest in neuroscience and related disciplines. Current formulations address inference and learning under some assumed and particular model. In reality, organisms are often faced with an additional challenge-that of determining which model or models of their environment are the best for guiding behavior. Bayesian model averaging-which says that an agent should weight the predictions of different models according to their evidence-provides a principled way to solve this problem. Importantly, because model evidence is determined by both the accuracy and complexity of the model, optimal inference requires that these be traded off against one another. This means an agent's behavior should show an equivalent balance. We hypothesize that Bayesian model averaging plays an important role in cognition, given that it is both optimal and realizable within a plausible neuronal architecture. We outline model averaging and how it might be implemented, and then explore a number of implications for brain and behavior. In particular, we propose that model averaging can explain a number of apparently suboptimal phenomena within the framework of approximate (bounded) Bayesian inference, focusing particularly upon the relationship between goal-directed and habitual behavior.
11	bayesian	2012	Buchsbaum, D; Bridgers, S; Weisberg, DS; Gopnik, A	The power of possibility: causal learning, counterfactual reasoning, and pretend play	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	We argue for a theoretical link between the development of an extended period of immaturity in human evolution and the emergence of powerful and wide-ranging causal learning mechanisms, specifically the use of causal models and Bayesian learning. We suggest that exploratory childhood learning, childhood play in particular, and causal cognition are closely connected. We report an empirical study demonstrating one such connection-a link between pretend play and counterfactual causal reasoning. Preschool children given new information about a causal system made very similar inferences both when they considered counterfactuals about the system and when they engaged in pretend play about it. Counterfactual cognition and causally coherent pretence were also significantly correlated even when age, general cognitive development and executive function were controlled for. These findings link a distinctive human form of childhood play and an equally distinctive human form of causal inference. We speculate that, during human evolution, computations that were initially reserved for solving particularly important ecological problems came to be used much more widely and extensively during the long period of protected immaturity.
12	bayesian	2012	Shogenji, T	The degree of epistemic justification and the conjunction fallacy	SYNTHESE	This paper describes a formal measure of epistemic justification motivated by the dual goal of cognition, which is to increase true beliefs and reduce false beliefs. From this perspective the degree of epistemic justification should not be the conditional probability of the proposition given the evidence, as it is commonly thought. It should be determined instead by the combination of the conditional probability and the prior probability. This is also true of the degree of incremental confirmation, and I argue that any measure of epistemic justification is also a measure of incremental confirmation. However, the degree of epistemic justification must meet an additional condition, and all known measures of incremental confirmation fail to meet it. I describe this additional condition as well as a measure that meets it. The paper then applies the measure to the conjunction fallacy and proposes an explanation of the fallacy.
13	bayesian	2010	Steyvers, M	Combining feature norms and text data with topic models	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	Many psychological theories of semantic cognition assume that concepts are represented by features. The empirical procedures used to elicit features from humans rely on explicit human judgments which limit the scope of such representations. An alternative computational framework for semantic cognition that does not rely on explicit human judgment is based on the statistical analysis of large text collections. In the topic modeling approach, documents are represented as a mixture of learned topics where each topic is represented as a probability distribution over words. We propose feature-topic models, where each document is represented by a mixture of learned topics as well as predefined topics that are derived from feature norms. Results indicate that this model leads to systematic improvements in generalization tasks. We show that the learned topics in the model play in an important role in the generalization performance by including words that are not part of current feature norms. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
14	bayesian	1995	FRIEDMAN, D; MASSARO, DW; KITZIS, SN; COHEN, MM	A COMPARISON OF LEARNING-MODELS	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	We investigate learning in a probabilistic task, called ''medical diagnosis.'' On each trial, a subject is presented with a stimulus configuration indicating the value of four medical symptoms. The subject responds by guessing which of two diseases is present and is then given feedback about which disease was actually present. The feedback is determined according to fixed conditional probabilities unknown to the subject. We test a normative Bayesian model as well as simple variants of well-known psychological models including the Fuzzy Logical Model of Perception, an Exemplar model, a two-layer Connectionist model and an ALCOVE model. Both the asymptotic predictions of these models (i.e., predictions regarding behavior after it has stabilized and learning is complete) and predictions of trial-by-trial changes in behavior are tested. The models are tested against existing data from Estes et al. (1989, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 15, 556-571) and new data from medical diagnosis tasks that include not only asymmetric but also symmetric base rates. Learning was observed in all cases in that subjects tended to match the objective probabilities of the symptom configurations more closely in later trials. All of the descriptive models give a more accurate account of performance than the normative Bayesian model. Relative to a benchmark measure, however, none of these models does an especially good job of characterizing asymptotic performance or the learning process. We suggest that future experiments should address individual performance, rather than group learning curves. (C) 1995 Academic Press, Inc.
15	bayesian	2014	Vul, E; Goodman, N; Griffiths, TL; Tenenbaum, JB	One and Done? Optimal Decisions From Very Few Samples	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In many learning or inference tasks human behavior approximates that of a Bayesian ideal observer, suggesting that, at some level, cognition can be described as Bayesian inference. However, a number of findings have highlighted an intriguing mismatch between human behavior and standard assumptions about optimality: People often appear to make decisions based on just one or a few samples from the appropriate posterior probability distribution, rather than using the full distribution. Although sampling-based approximations are a common way to implement Bayesian inference, the very limited numbers of samples often used by humans seem insufficient to approximate the required probability distributions very accurately. Here, we consider this discrepancy in the broader framework of statistical decision theory, and ask: If people are making decisions based on samples-but as samples are costly-how many samples should people use to optimize their total expected or worst-case reward over a large number of decisions? We find that under reasonable assumptions about the time costs of sampling, making many quick but locally suboptimal decisions based on very few samples may be the globally optimal strategy over long periods. These results help to reconcile a large body of work showing sampling-based or probability matching behavior with the hypothesis that human cognition can be understood in Bayesian terms, and they suggest promising future directions for studies of resource-constrained cognition.
16	bayesian	2014	Moran, RJ; Symmonds, M; Dolan, RJ; Friston, KJ	The Brain Ages Optimally to Model Its Environment: Evidence from Sensory Learning over the Adult Lifespan	PLOS COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY	The aging brain shows a progressive loss of neuropil, which is accompanied by subtle changes in neuronal plasticity, sensory learning and memory. Neurophysiologically, aging attenuates evoked responses-including the mismatch negativity (MMN). This is accompanied by a shift in cortical responsivity from sensory (posterior) regions to executive (anterior) regions, which has been interpreted as a compensatory response for cognitive decline. Theoretical neurobiology offers a simpler explanation for all of these effects-from a Bayesian perspective, as the brain is progressively optimized to model its world, its complexity will decrease. A corollary of this complexity reduction is an attenuation of Bayesian updating or sensory learning. Here we confirmed this hypothesis using magnetoencephalographic recordings of the mismatch negativity elicited in a large cohort of human subjects, in their third to ninth decade. Employing dynamic causal modeling to assay the synaptic mechanisms underlying these non-invasive recordings, we found a selective age-related attenuation of synaptic connectivity changes that underpin rapid sensory learning. In contrast, baseline synaptic connectivity strengths were consistently strong over the decades. Our findings suggest that the lifetime accrual of sensory experience optimizes functional brain architectures to enable efficient and generalizable predictions of the world.
17	bayesian	2011	Griffiths, TL; Tenenbaum, JB	Predicting the Future as Bayesian Inference: People Combine Prior Knowledge With Observations When Estimating Duration and Extent	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Predicting the future is a basic problem that people have to solve every day and a component of planning, decision making, memory, and causal reasoning. In this article, we present 5 experiments testing a Bayesian model of predicting the duration or extent of phenomena from their current state. This Bayesian model indicates how people should combine prior knowledge with observed data. Comparing this model with human judgments provides constraints on possible algorithms that people might use to predict the future. In the experiments, we examine the effects of multiple observations, the effects of prior knowledge, and the difference between independent and dependent observations, using both descriptions and direct experience of prediction problems. The results indicate that people integrate prior knowledge and observed data in a way that is consistent with our Bayesian model, ruling out some simple heuristics for predicting the future. We suggest some mechanisms that might lead to more complete algorithmic-level accounts.
18	bayesian	2010	Neal, A; Kilner, JM	What is simulated in the action observation network when we observe actions?	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	In the last decade there has been a great amount of research investigating the role of simulation in our ability to infer the underlying intentions of any observed action. The majority of studies have focussed on the role of mirror neurons and the network of cortical areas active during action observation (AON) in inferring the goal of an observed action. However, it remains unclear what precisely is simulated when we observe an action and how such simulations can enable the observer to infer the underlying intention of that action. In particular it is not known how simulation in the AON enables the inference of the same goal when the kinematics observed to achieve that goal differ, such as when reaching to grasp an object with the left or right hands. Here we performed a behavioural study with healthy human subjects to address this question. We show that the subjects were able to detect very subtle changes in the kinematics of an observed action. In addition, we fitted the behavioural responses with a model based on the predictive coding account of mirror neurons. This is a Bayesian account of action observation that can be explained by the free-energy principle. Here we show that we can model all the effects observed when the action observation system is considered within a predictive coding framework.
19	bayesian	2009	Lewandowsky, S; Griffiths, TL; Kalish, ML	The Wisdom of Individuals: Exploring People's Knowledge About Everyday Events Using Iterated Learning	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Determining the knowledge that guides human judgments is fundamental to understanding how people reason, make decisions, and form predictions. We use an experimental procedure called ''iterated learning,'' in which the responses that people give on one trial are used to generate the data they see on the next, to pinpoint the knowledge that informs people's predictions about everyday events (e.g., predicting the total box office gross of a movie from its current take). In particular, we use this method to discriminate between two models of human judgments: a simple Bayesian model (Griffiths & Tenenbaum, 2006) and a recently proposed alternative model that assumes people store only a few instances of each type of event in memory (MinK; Mozer, Pashler, & Homaei, 2008). Although testing these models using standard experimental procedures is difficult due to differences in the number of free parameters and the need to make assumptions about the knowledge of individual learners, we show that the two models make very different predictions about the outcome of iterated learning. The results of an experiment using this methodology provide a rich picture of how much people know about the distributions of everyday quantities, and they are inconsistent with the predictions of the MinK model. The results suggest that accurate predictions about everyday events reflect relatively sophisticated knowledge on the part of individuals.
20	bayesian	2011	Haykin, S; Zia, A; Xue, YB; Arasaratnam, I	Control theoretic approach to tracking radar: First step towards cognition	DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING	In Haykin (2006) [8], the idea of Cognitive Radar was described for the first time. Four essential points were emphasized in that seminal paper: Bayesian filtering in the receiver, dynamic programming in the transmitter, memory, and global feedback to facilitate computational intelligence. This paper provides a first step towards designing a cognitive radar for tracking applications by presenting a fore-active tracking radar; a radar that utilizes its previous measurements and actions to optimize its transmitted waveform (Haykin, 2011 [11]). In our design, the emphasis is being placed on the cubature Kalman filter to approximate the Bayesian filter in the receiver, approximate dynamic programming for transmit-waveform selection in the transmitter, and global feedback embodying the transmitter, the radar environment, and the receiver all under one overall feedback loop. Simulation results, based on the tracking of an object falling in space, are presented, which substantiate practical validity of the superior performance of a fore-active tracking radar over a traditional active radar with fixed waveform. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
21	bayesian	2011	Wonnacott, E	Balancing generalization and lexical conservatism: An artificial language study with child learners	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	Successful language acquisition involves generalization, but learners must balance this against the acquisition of lexical constraints. Such learning has been considered problematic for theories of acquisition: if learners generalize abstract patterns to new words, how do they learn lexically-based exceptions? One approach claims that learners use distributional statistics to make inferences about when generalization is appropriate, a hypothesis which has recently received support from Artificial Language Learning experiments with adult learners (Wonnacott, Newport, & Tanenhaus, 2008). Since adult and child language learning may be different (Hudson Kam & Newport, 2005), it is essential to extend these results to child learners. In the current work, four groups of children (6 years) were each exposed to one of four semi-artificial languages. The results demonstrate that children are sensitive to linguistic distributions at and above the level of particular lexical items, and that these statistics influence the balance between generalization and lexical conservatism. The data are in line with an approach which models generalization as rational inference and in particular with the predictions of the domain general hierarchical Bayesian model developed in Kemp, Perfors & Tenenbaum, 2006. This suggests that such models have relevance for theories of language acquisition. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
22	bayesian	2005	Dennis, S	A memory-based theory of verbal cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The syntagmatic paradigmatic model is a distributed, memory-based account of verbal processing. Built on a Bayesian interpretation of string edit theory, it characterizes the control of verbal cognition as the retrieval of sets of syntagmatic and paradigmatic constraints from sequential and relational long-term memory and the resolution of these constraints in working memory. Lexical information is extracted directly from text using a version of the expectation maximization algorithm. In this article, the model is described and then illustrated on a number of phenomena, including sentence processing, semantic categorization and rating, short-term serial recall, and analogical and logical inference. Subsequently, the model is used to answer questions about a corpus of tennis news articles taken from the Internet. The model's success demonstrates that it is possible to extract propositional information from naturally occurring text without employing a grammar, defining a set of heuristics, or specifying a priori a set of semantic roles.
23	bayesian	2010	Wu, H; Myung, JI; Batchelder, WH	Minimum description length model selection of multinomial processing tree models	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Multinomial processing tree (MPT) modeling has been widely and successfully applied as a statistical methodology for measuring hypothesized latent cognitive processes in selected experimental paradigms. In this article, we address the problem of selecting the best MPT model from a set of scientifically plausible MPT models, given observed data. We introduce a minimum description length (MDL) based model-selection approach that overcomes the limitations of existing methods such as the G(2)-based likelihood ratio test, the Akaike information criterion, and the Bayesian information criterion. To help ease the computational burden of implementing MDL, we provide a computer program in MATLAB that performs MDL-based model selection for any MPT model, with or without inequality constraints. Finally, we discuss applications of the MDL approach to well-studied MPT models with real data sets collected in two different experimental paradigms: source monitoring and pair clustering. The aforementioned MATLAB program may be downloaded from http://pbr.psychonomic-journals.org/content/supplemental.
24	bayesian	2007	Gigerenzer, G; Hoffrage, U	The role of representation in Bayesian reasoning: Correcting common misconceptions	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The terms nested sets, partitive frequencies, inside-outside views and dual processes add little but confusion to our original analysis (Gigerenzer & Hoffrage 1995; 1999) The idea of nested set was introduced because of an oversight; it simply rephrases two of our equations. Representation in terms of chances, in contrast, is a novel contribution yet consistent with our computational analysis - it uses exactly the same numbers as natural frequencies. We show that non-bayesian reasoning in children, laypeople, and physicians follows multiple rules rather than a general-purpose associative process in a vaguely specified "System 1." It is unclear what the theory in "dual process theory" is: Unless the two processes are defined, this distinction call account hoc for almost everything. In contrast, an ecological view of cognition helps to explain insight is elicited from the outside (the external representation of information) and, more generally, how cognitive strategies match with environmental structures.
25	bayesian	2011	Hsu, AS; Chater, N; Vitanyi, PMB	The probabilistic analysis of language acquisition: Theoretical, computational, and experimental analysis	COGNITION	There is much debate over the degree to which language learning is governed by innate language-specific biases, or acquired through cognition-general principles. Here we examine the probabilistic language acquisition hypothesis on three levels: We outline a novel theoretical result showing that it is possible to learn the exact generative model underlying a wide class of languages, purely from observing samples of the language. We then describe a recently proposed practical framework, which quantifies natural language learnability, allowing specific learnability predictions to be made for the first time. In previous work, this framework was used to make learnability predictions for a wide variety of linguistic constructions, for which learnability has been much debated. Here, we present a new experiment which tests these learnability predictions. We find that our experimental results support the possibility that these linguistic constructions are acquired probabilistically from cognition-general principles. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
26	bayesian	2008	Dickson, ES; Hafer, C; Landa, D	Cognition and Strategy: A Deliberation Experiment	JOURNAL OF POLITICS	A theory of deliberation must provide a plausible account both of individuals' choices to speak or to listen and of how they reinterpret their own views in the aftermath of deliberation. We describe a game-theoretic laboratory experiment in which subjects with diverse interests speak or listen before voting over a common outcome. An important feature of our strategic setting is that introspective agents may, upon hearing an unpersuasive argument, update away from the speaker's preferred position. While subjects are responsive to strategic incentives, they also deviate from Bayesian predictions by "overspeaking" when speech is likelier to alienate than persuade. Subjects thus come closer to the deliberative democratic ideal of a free exchange of arguments than equilibrium predictions suggest. We interpret evidence from subjects' deliberative choices and policy votes in terms of a cognitive hierarchy among subjects, defined by differing abilities to grasp the strategic implications of different kinds of information.
27	bayesian	2008	Morey, RD; Rouder, JN; Speckman, PL	A statistical model for discriminating between subliminal and near-liminal performance	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	The concept of a psychophysical threshold is foundational in perceptual psychology. In practice, thresholds are operationalized as stimulus values that lead to a fairly high level of performance such as .75 or .707 in two-choice tasks. These operationalizations are not useful for assessing subliminality-the state in which a stimulus is so weak that performance is at chance. We present a hierarchical Bayesian model of performance that incorporates a threshold that divides subliminal from near-liminal performance. The model provides a convenient means to measure at-chance thresholds and therefore is useful for testing theories of subliminal priming. The hierarchical nature of the model is critical for efficient analysis as strength is pooled across people and stimulus values. A comparison to Rasch psychometric models is provided. (c) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
28	bayesian	2008	Lee, MD; Vanpaemel, W	Exemplars, Prototypes, Similarities, and Rules in Category Representation: An Example of Hierarchical Bayesian Analysis	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article demonstrates the potential of using hierarchical Bayesian methods to relate models and data in the cognitive sciences. This is done using a worked example that considers an existing model of category representation, the Varying Abstraction Model (VAM), which attempts to infer the representations people use from their behavior in category learning tasks. The VAM allows for a wide variety of category representations to be inferred, but this article shows how a hierarchical Bayesian analysis can provide a unifying explanation of the representational possibilities using 2 parameters. One parameter controls the emphasis on abstraction in category representations, and the other controls the emphasis on similarity. Using 30 previously published data sets, this work shows how inferences about these parameters, and about the category representations they generate, can be used to evaluate data in terms of the ongoing exemplar versus prototype and similarity versus rules debates in the literature. Using this concrete example, this article emphasizes the advantages of hierarchical Bayesian models in converting model selection problems to parameter estimation problems, and providing one way of specifying theoretically based priors for competing models.
29	bayesian	2006	Liao, L; Patterson, DJ; Fox, D; Kautz, H	Building personal maps from GPS data	PROGRESS IN CONVERGENCE: TECHNOLOGIES FOR HUMAN WELLBEING	In this article we discuss an assisted cognition information technology system that can learn personal maps customized for each user and infer his daily activities and movements from raw GPS data. The system uses discriminative and generative models for different parts of this task. A discriminative relational Markov network is used to extract significant places and label them; a generative dynamic Bayesian network is used to learn transportation routines, and infer goals and potential user errors at real time. We focus on the basic structures of the models and briefly discuss the inference and learning techniques. Experiments show that our system is able to accurately extract and label places, predict the goals of a person, and recognize situations in which the user makes mistakes, such as taking a wrong bus.
30	bayesian	2014	Naderpour, M; Lu, J; Zhang, GQ	An intelligent situation awareness support system for safety-critical environments	DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEMS	Operators handling abnormal situations in safety-critical environments need to be supported from a cognitive perspective to reduce their workload, stress, and consequent error rate. Of the various cognitive activities, a correct understanding of the situation, i.e. situation awareness (SA), is a crucial factor in improving performance and reducing error. However, existing system safety researches focus mainly on technical issues and often neglect SA. This study presents an innovative cognition-driven decision support system called the situation awareness support system (SASS) to manage abnormal situations in safety-critical environments in which the effect of situational complexity on human decision-makers is a concern. To achieve this objective, a situational network modeling process and a situation assessment model that exploits the specific capabilities of dynamic Bayesian networks and risk indicators are first proposed. The SASS is then developed and consists of four major elements: 1) a situation data collection component that provides the current state of the observable variables based on online conditions and monitoring systems, 2) a situation assessment component based on dynamic Bayesian networks (DBN) to model the hazardous situations in a situational network and a fuzzy risk estimation method to generate the assessment result, 3) a situation recovery component that provides a basis for decision-making to reduce the risk level of situations to an acceptable level, and 4) a human-computer interface. The SASS is partially evaluated by a sensitivity analysis, which is carried out to validate DBN-based situational networks, and SA measurements are suggested for a full evaluation of the proposed system. The performance of the SASS is demonstrated by a case taken from US Chemical Safety Board reports, and the results demonstrate that the SASS provides a useful graphical, mathematically consistent system for dealing with incomplete and uncertain information to help operators maintain the risk of dynamic situations at an acceptable level. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
31	bayesian	2013	Zorzi, M; Testolin, A; Stoianov, IP	Modeling language and cognition with deep unsupervised learning: a tutorial overview	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Deep unsupervised learning in stochastic recurrent neural networks with many layers of hidden units is a recent breakthrough in neural computation research. These networks build a hierarchy of progressively more complex distributed representations of the sensory data by fitting a hierarchical generative model. In this article we discuss the theoretical foundations of this approach and we review key issues related to training, testing and analysis of deep networks for modeling language and cognitive processing. The classic letter and word perception problem of McClelland and Rumelhart (1981) is used as a tutorial example to illustrate how structured and abstract representations may emerge from deep generative learning. We argue that the focus on deep architectures and generative (rather than discriminative) learning represents a crucial step forward for the connectionist modeling enterprise, because it offers a more plausible model of cortical learning as well as a way to bridge the gap between emergentist connectionist models and structured Bayesian models of cognition.
32	bayesian	2011	Daunizeau, J; Preuschoff, K; Friston, KJ; Stephan, K	Optimizing Experimental Design for Comparing Models of Brain Function	PLOS COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY	This article presents the first attempt to formalize the optimization of experimental design with the aim of comparing models of brain function based on neuroimaging data. We demonstrate our approach in the context of Dynamic Causal Modelling (DCM), which relates experimental manipulations to observed network dynamics (via hidden neuronal states) and provides an inference framework for selecting among candidate models. Here, we show how to optimize the sensitivity of model selection by choosing among experimental designs according to their respective model selection accuracy. Using Bayesian decision theory, we (i) derive the Laplace-Chernoff risk for model selection, (ii) disclose its relationship with classical design optimality criteria and (iii) assess its sensitivity to basic modelling assumptions. We then evaluate the approach when identifying brain networks using DCM. Monte-Carlo simulations and empirical analyses of fMRI data from a simple bimanual motor task in humans serve to demonstrate the relationship between network identification and the optimal experimental design. For example, we show that deciding whether there is a feedback connection requires shorter epoch durations, relative to asking whether there is experimentally induced change in a connection that is known to be present. Finally, we discuss limitations and potential extensions of this work.
33	bayesian	2011	Jacobs, RA; Kruschke, JK	Bayesian learning theory applied to human cognition	WILEY INTERDISCIPLINARY REVIEWS-COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Probabilistic models based on Bayes' rule are an increasingly popular approach to understanding human cognition. Bayesian models allow immense representational latitude and complexity. Because they use normative Bayesian mathematics to process those representations, they define optimal performance on a given task. This article focuses on key mechanisms of Bayesian information processing, and provides numerous examples illustrating Bayesian approaches to the study of human cognition. We start by providing an overview of Bayesian modeling and Bayesian networks. We then describe three types of information processing operations-inference, parameter learning, and structure learning-in both Bayesian networks and human cognition. This is followed by a discussion of the important roles of prior knowledge and of active learning. We conclude by outlining some challenges for Bayesian models of human cognition that will need to be addressed by future research. (C) 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. WIREs Cogn Sci 2011 2 8-21 DOI: 10.1002/wcs.80
34	bayesian	2014	McClelland, JL; Mirman, D; Bolger, DJ; Khaitan, P	Interactive Activation and Mutual Constraint Satisfaction in Perception and Cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In a seminal 1977 article, Rumelhart argued that perception required the simultaneous use of multiple sources of information, allowing perceivers to optimally interpret sensory information at many levels of representation in real time as information arrives. Building on Rumelhart's arguments, we present the Interactive Activation hypothesis-the idea that the mechanism used in perception and comprehension to achieve these feats exploits an interactive activation process implemented through the bidirectional propagation of activation among simple processing units. We then examine the interactive activation model of letter and word perception and the TRACE model of speech perception, as early attempts to explore this hypothesis, and review the experimental evidence relevant to their assumptions and predictions. We consider how well these models address the computational challenge posed by the problem of perception, and we consider how consistent they are with evidence from behavioral experiments. We examine empirical and theoretical controversies surrounding the idea of interactive processing, including a controversy that swirls around the relationship between interactive computation and optimal Bayesian inference. Some of the implementation details of early versions of interactive activation models caused deviation from optimality and from aspects of human performance data. More recent versions of these models, however, overcome these deficiencies. Among these is a model called the multinomial interactive activation model, which explicitly links interactive activation and Bayesian computations. We also review evidence from neurophysiological and neuroimaging studies supporting the view that interactive processing is a characteristic of the perceptual processing machinery in the brain. In sum, we argue that a computational analysis, as well as behavioral and neuroscience evidence, all support the Interactive Activation hypothesis. The evidence suggests that contemporary versions of models based on the idea of interactive activation continue to provide a basis for efforts to achieve a fuller understanding of the process of perception.
35	bayesian	2014	Haykin, S; Fuster, JM	On Cognitive Dynamic Systems: Cognitive Neuroscience and Engineering Learning From Each Other	PROCEEDINGS OF THE IEEE	Cognitive dynamic systems provide a broadly defined platform, whereby engineering learns from cognitive neuroscience, and by the same token, cognitive neuroscience learns from engineering. The first part of the paper is of a tutorial nature, addressing recent advances in cognitive perception and cognitive control, which are the dual of each other. The study of cognitive perception, viewed from the perspective of Bayesian inference, starts with sparse coding, well known in neuroscience. However, sparse coding could become ill-posed, particularly when the signal-to-noise ratio is low. In such situations, stability is a necessary requirement, which can only be satisfied if there is sufficient information in the observables. To satisfy this requirement, the sparse-coding algorithm is augmented by the addition of information filtering (i.e., a special case of Bayesian filtering). Accordingly, the performance of sparse coding is improved under the influence of perceptual attention. This improvement enhances the cognitive perceptor to separate relevant information from irrelevant information. Next, moving into cognitive control, viewed from the perspective of Bellman's dynamic programming, two ideas are exploited: entropic state of the perceptor, and the definition of reward as an invertible function of two entropic states, namely, the current state and its immediate past value. The net result of building on these two ideas is a modified form of Bellman's dynamic programming, and, therefore, a new reinforcement learning algorithm, which not only outperforms traditional reinforcement learning algorithms, but also offers some highly desirable properties. Among them is a linear law of computational complexity, which is the best that it could be. The second part of the paper addresses two challenging problems: first, how to mediate between cognitive control and cognitive perception and, second, how to formulate a procedure for risk control. The first problem is resolved by making use of probabilistic reasoning, a branch of probability theory, which leads into the formulation of a probabilistic reasoning machine. With this mediation in place, the conditions for overall system stability are derived, thereby confirming the probabilistic reasoning machine as the overall system stabilizer. The second challenge is risk control, which is by far the most challenging of them all: In the presence of an unexpected disturbance in the environment, risk is brought under control by mimicking the predict and preadapt function, which is considered to be the overarching function in the prefrontal cortex of the brain. To be specific, motor control is expanded by the inclusion of a new preadaptive control mechanism, which involves two different sets of actions: One set is made up of possible actions identified by the policy in the motor control. The other set involves a window of experiences (i.e., optimal actions) gained in the past. In a novel way, by exploiting these two sets, we end up with a preadaptive control mechanism in the form of a closed-loop feedback structure, which brings with it control (executive) attention.
36	bayesian	2010	Chater, N; Oaksford, M; Hahn, U; Heit, E	Bayesian models of cognition	WILEY INTERDISCIPLINARY REVIEWS-COGNITIVE SCIENCE	There has been a recent explosion in research applying Bayesian models to cognitive phenomena. This development has resulted from the realization that across a wide variety of tasks the fundamental problem the cognitive system confronts is coping with uncertainty. From visual scene recognition to on-line language comprehension, from categorizing stimuli to determining to what degree an argument is convincing, people must deal with the incompleteness of the information they possess to perform these tasks, many of which have important survival-related consequences. This paper provides a review of Bayesian models of cognition, dividing them up by the different aspects of cognition to which they have been applied. The paper begins with a brief review of Bayesian inference. This falls short of a full technical introduction but the reader is referred to the relevant literature for further details. There follows reviews of Bayesian models in Perception, Categorization, Learning and Causality, Language Processing, Inductive Reasoning, Deductive Reasoning, and Argumentation. In all these areas, it is argued that sophisticated Bayesian models are enhancing our understanding of the underlying cognitive computations involved. It is concluded that a major challenge is to extend the evidential basis for these models, especially to accounts of higher level cognition. (C) 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. WIREs Cogn Sci 2010 1 811-823
37	bayesian	2008	Temperley, D	A probabilistic model of melody perception	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This study presents a probabilistic model of melody perception, which infers the key of a melody and also judges the probability of the melody itself. The model uses Bayesian reasoning: For any "surface" pattern and underlying "structure," we can infer the structure maximizing P(structure I surface) based on knowledge of P(surface, structure). The probability of the surface can then be calculated as Sigma P(surface, structure), summed over all structures. In this case, the surface is a pattern of notes; the structure is a key. A generative model is proposed, based on three principles: (a) melodies tend to remain within a narrow pitch range; (b) note-to-note intervals within a melody tend to be small; and (c) notes tend to conform to a distribution (or key profile) that depends on the key. The model is tested in three ways. First, it is tested on its ability to identify the keys of a set of folksong melodies. Second, it is tested on a melodic expectation task in which it must judge the probability of different notes occurring given a prior context; these judgments are compared with perception data from a melodic expectation experiment. Finally, the model is tested on its ability to detect incorrect notes in melodies by assigning them lower probabilities than the original versions.
38	bayesian	2004	Temperley, D	Bayesian models of musical structure and cognition	MUSICAE SCIENTIAE	This paper explores the application of Bayesian probabilistic modeling to issues of music cognition and music theory. The main concern is with the problem of key-finding: the process of inferring the key from a pattern of notes. The Bayesian perspective leads to a simple, elegant, and highly effective model of this process; the same approach can also be extended to other aspects of music perception, such as metrical structure and melodic structure. Bayesian modeling also relates in interesting ways to a number of other musical issues, including musical tension, ambiguity, expectation, and the quantitative description of styles and stylistic differences.
39	bayesian	2012	Bowers, JS; Davis, CJ	Is That What Bayesians Believe? Reply to Griffiths, Chater, Norris, and Pouget (2012)	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	Griffiths, Chater, Norris, and Pouget (2012) argue that we have misunderstood the Bayesian approach. In their view, it is rarely the case that researchers are making claims that performance in a given task is near optimal, and few, if any, researchers adopt the theoretical Bayesian perspective according to which the mind or brain is actually performing (or approximating) Bayesian computations. Rather, researchers are said to adopt something more akin to what we called the methodological Bayesian approach, according to which Bayesian models are statistical tools that allow researchers to provide teleological explanations of behavior. In our reply we argue that many Bayesian researchers often appear to be make claims regarding optimality, and often appear to be making claims regarding how the mind computes at algorithmic and implementational levels of descriptions. We agree that some Bayesian theorists adopt the methodological approach, but we question the value of this approach. If Bayesian theories in psychology and neuroscience are only designed to provide insights into teleological questions, we expect that many readers have misunderstood, and hence there is a pressing need to clarify what Bayesian theories of cognition are all about.
40	bayesian	2011	Kwisthout, J; Wareham, T; van Rooij, I	Bayesian Intractability Is Not an Ailment That Approximation Can Cure	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	0
41	bayesian	2010	Craigmile, PF; Peruggia, M; Van Zandt, T	Hierarchical Bayes Models for Response Time Data	PSYCHOMETRIKA	Human response time (RT) data are widely used in experimental psychology to evaluate theories of mental processing. Typically, the data constitute the times taken by a subject to react to a succession of stimuli under varying experimental conditions. Because of the sequential nature of the experiments there are trends (due to learning, fatigue, fluctuations in attentional state, etc.) and serial dependencies in the data. The data also exhibit extreme observations that can be attributed to lapses, intrusions from outside the experiment, and errors occurring during the experiment. Any adequate analysis should account for these features and quantify them accurately. Recognizing that Bayesian hierarchical models are an excellent modeling tool, we focus on the elaboration of a realistic likelihood for the data and on a careful assessment of the quality of fit that it provides. We judge quality of fit in terms of the predictive performance of the model. We demonstrate how simple Bayesian hierarchical models can be built for several RT sequences, differentiating between subject-specific and condition-specific effects.
42	bayesian	2009	Spelke, ES; Kinzler, KD	Innateness, Learning, and Rationality	CHILD DEVELOPMENT PERSPECTIVES	J. P. Spencer et al. (2009) ask readers to reject the nativist-empiricist dialogue and adopt a new theoretical perspective on cognition, focusing on "developmental process." This commentary argues that the dialogue between nativism and empiricism is a rich source of insight into the nature and development of human knowledge. Indeed, the dialogue is entering a new and exciting phase, in which new methods of controlled rearing and of cognitive neuroscience, and new conceptual tools for understanding learning, allow exploration of how human concepts emerge through the interaction of innate cognitive structures shaped by natural selection, with statistical learning processes shaped by specific encounters with the world. This approach fosters new, interdisciplinary research that promises to increase dramatically understanding of human knowledge.
43	bayesian	2008	Lee, MD	BayesSDT: Software for Bayesian inference with signal detection theory	BEHAVIOR RESEARCH METHODS	This article describes and demonstrates the BayesSDT MATLAB-based software package for performing Bayesian analysis with equal-variance Gaussian signal detection theory (SDT). The software uses WinBUGS to draw samples from the posterior distribution of six SDT parameters: discriminability, hit rate, false alarm rate, criterion, and two alternative measures of bias. The software either provides a simple NIATLAB graphical user interface or allows a more general MATLAB function call to produce graphs of the posterior distribution for each parameter of interest for each data set, as well as to return the full set of posterior samples.
44	bayesian	2007	Trejo, LJ; Knuth, K; Prado, R; Rosipal, R; Kubitz, K; Kochavi, R; Matthews, B; Zhang, Y	EEG-Based estimation of mental fatigue: Convergent evidence for a three-state model	FOUNDATIONS OF AUGMENTED COGNITION, PROCEEDINGS	Two new computational models show that the EEG distinguishes three distinct mental states ranging from alert to fatigue. State I indicates heightened alertness and is frequently present during the first few minutes of time on task. State 2 indicates normal alertness, often following and lasting longer than State 1. State 3 indicates fatigue, usually following State 2, but sometimes alternating with State I and State 2. Thirty-channel EEGs were recorded from 16 subjects who performed up to 180 min of nonstop computer-based mental arithmetic. Alert or fatigued states were independently confirmed with measures of subjects' performance and pre- or post-task mood. We found convergent evidence for a three-state model of fatigue using Bayesian analysis of two different types of EEG features, both computed for single 13-s EEG epochs: 1) kernel partial least squares scores representing composite multichannel power spectra; 2) amplitude and frequency parameters of multiple single-channel autoregressive models.
45	bayesian	2006	Lee, MD	A hierarchical Bayesian model of human decision-making on an optimal stopping problem	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We consider human performance on an optimal stopping problem where people are presented with a list of numbers independently chosen from a uniform distribution. People are told how many numbers are in the list, and how they were chosen. People are then shown the numbers one at a time, and are instructed to choose the maximum, subject to the constraint that they must choose a number at the time it is presented, and any choice below the maximum is incorrect. We present empirical evidence that suggests people use threshold-based models to make decisions, choosing the first currently maximal number that exceeds a fixed threshold for that position in the list. We then develop a hierarchical generative account of this model family, and use Bayesian methods to learn about the parameters of the generative process, making inferences about the threshold decision models people use. We discuss the interesting aspects of human performance on the task, including the lack of learning, and the presence of large individual differences, and consider the possibility of extending the modeling framework to account for individual differences. We also use the modeling results to discuss the merits of hierarchical, generative and Bayesian models of cognitive processes more generally.
46	bayesian	2006	Lawyer, G; Nyman, H; Agartz, I; Arnborg, S; Jonsson, EG; Sedvall, GC; Hall, H	Morphological correlates to cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia as studied with Bayesian regression	BMC PSYCHIATRY	Background: Relationships between cognitive deficits and brain morphological changes observed in schizophrenia are alternately explained by less gray matter in the brain cerebral cortex, by alterations in neural circuitry involving the basal ganglia, and by alteration in cerebellar structures and related neural circuitry. This work explored a model encompassing all of these possibilities to identify the strongest morphological relationships to cognitive skill in schizophrenia. Methods: Seventy-one patients with schizophrenia and sixty-five healthy control subjects were characterized by neuropsychological tests covering six functional domains. Measures of sixteen brain morphological structures were taken using semi-automatic and fully manual tracing of MRI images, with the full set of measures completed on thirty of the patients and twenty controls. Group differences were calculated. A Bayesian decision-theoretic method identified those morphological features, which best explained neuropsychological test scores in the context of a multivariate response linear model with interactions. Results: Patients performed significantly worse on all neuropsychological tests except some regarding executive function. The most prominent morphological observations were enlarged ventricles, reduced posterior superior vermis gray matter volumes, and increased putamen gray matter volumes in the patients. The Bayesian method associated putamen volumes with verbal learning, vigilance, and (to a lesser extent) executive function, while caudate volumes were associated with working memory. Vermis regions were associated with vigilance, executive function, and, less strongly, visuo-motor speed. Ventricular volume was strongly associated with visuo-motor speed, vocabulary, and executive function. Those neuropsychological tests, which were strongly associated to ventricular volume, showed only weak association to diagnosis, possibly because ventricular volume was regarded a proxy for diagnosis. Diagnosis was strongly associated with the other neuropsychological tests, implying that the morphological associations for these tasks reflected morphological effects and not merely group volumetric differences. Interaction effects were rarely associated, indicating that volumetric relationships to neuropsychological performance were similar for both patients and controls. Conclusion: The association of subcortical and cerebellar structures to verbal learning, vigilance, and working memory supports the importance of neural connectivity to these functions. The finding that a morphological indicator of diagnosis (ventricular volume) provided more explanatory power than diagnosis itself for visuo-motor speed, vocabulary, and executive function suggests that volumetric abnormalities in the disease are more important for cognition than non-morphological features.
47	bayesian	2011	Lee, MD; Sarnecka, BW	Number-knower levels in young children: Insights from Bayesian modeling	COGNITION	Lee and Sarnecka (2010) developed a Bayesian model of young children's behavior on the Give-N test of number knowledge. This paper presents two new extensions of the model, and applies the model to new data. In the first extension, the model is used to evaluate competing theories about the conceptual knowledge underlying children's behavior. One, the knower-levels theory, is basically a "stage" theory involving real conceptual change. The other, the approximate-meanings theory, assumes that the child's conceptual knowledge is relatively constant, although performance improves over time. In the second extension, the model is used to ask whether the same latent psychological variable (a child's number-knower level) can simultaneously account for behavior on two tasks (the Give-N task and the Fast-Cards task) with different performance demands. Together, these two demonstrations show the potential of the Bayesian modeling approach to improve our understanding of the development of human cognition. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
48	bayesian	2009	Leron, U; Hazzan, O	Intuitive vs analytical thinking: four perspectives	EDUCATIONAL STUDIES IN MATHEMATICS	This article is an attempt to place mathematical thinking in the context of more general theories of human cognition. We describe and compare four perspectives-mathematics, mathematics education, cognitive psychology, and evolutionary psychology-each offering a different view on mathematical thinking and learning and, in particular, on the source of mathematical errors and on ways of dealing with them in the classroom. The four perspectives represent four levels of explanation, and we see them not as competing but as complementing each other. In the classroom or in research data, all four perspectives may be observed. They may differentially account for the behavior of different students on the same task, the same student in different stages of development, or even the same student in different stages of working on a complex task. We first introduce each of the perspectives by reviewing its basic ideas and research base. We then show each perspective at work, by applying it to the analysis of typical mathematical misconceptions. Our illustrations are based on two tasks: one from statistics (taken from the psychological research literature) and one from abstract algebra (based on our own research).
49	bayesian	2009	Corlett, PR; Simons, JS; Pigott, JS; Gardner, JM; Murray, GK; Krystal, JH; Fletcher, PC	Illusions and delusions: relating experimentally-induced false memories to anomalous experiences and ideas	FRONTIERS IN BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	The salience hypothesis of psychosis rests on a simple but profound observation that subtle alterations in the way that we perceive and experience stimuli have important consequences for how important these stimuli become for us, how much they draw our attention, how they embed themselves in our memory and, ultimately, how they shape our beliefs. We put forward the idea that a classical memory illusion - the Deese-Roediger-McDermott (DRM) effect - offers a useful way of exploring processes related to such aberrant belief formation. The illusion occurs when, as a consequence of its relationship to previous stimuli, a stimulus that has not previously been presented is falsely remembered. Such illusory familiarity is thought to be generated by the surprising fluency with which the stimulus is processed. In this respect, the illusion relates directly to the salience hypothesis and may share common cognitive underpinnings with aberrations of perception and attribution that are found in psychosis. In this paper, we explore the theoretical importance of this experimentally-induced illusion in relation to the salience model of psychosis. We present data showing that, in healthy volunteers, the illusion relates directly to self reported anomalies of experience and magical thinking. We discuss this finding in terms of the salience hypothesis and of a broader Bayesian framework of perception and cognition which emphasizes the salience both of predictable and unpredictable experiences.
50	bayesian	2007	Shultz, TR	The Bayesian revolution approaches psychological development	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	This commentary reviews five articles that apply Bayesian ideas to psychological development, some with psychology experiments, some with computational modeling, and some with both experiments and modeling. The reviewed work extends the current Bayesian revolution into tasks often studied in children, such as causal learning and word learning, and provides evidence that children's performance can be optimal in a Bayesian sense. There remains much to be done in terms of understanding how representations are created, how development occurs, how Bayesian computation might be neurally implemented, and in reconciling the new work with older evidence that even skilled adults are incompetent Bayesians.
51	bayesian	2004	Szymanski, BK; Zhang, YQ	Recursive data mining for masquerade detection and author identification	PROCEEDINGS FROM THE FIFTH IEEE SYSTEMS, MAN AND CYBERNETICS INFORMATION ASSURANCE WORKSHOP	In this paper, a novel recursive data mining method based on the simple but powerful model of cognition called a conceptor is introduced and applied to computer security. The method recursively mines a string of symbols by finding frequent patterns, encoding them with unique symbols and rewriting the string using this new coding. We apply this technique to two related but important problems in computer security: (i) masquerade defection to prevent a security attack in which an intruder impersonates a legitimate user to gain access to the resources, and (U) author identification, in which anonymous or disputed computer session needs to be attributed to one of a set of potential authors. Many methods based on automata theory, Hidden Markov Models, Bayesian models or even matching algorithms from bioinformatics have been proposed to solve the masquerading detection problem but less work has been done on the author identification. We used recursive data mining to characterize the structure and high-level symbols in user signatures and the monitored sessions. We used one-class SVM to measure the similarity of these two characterizations. We applied weighting prediction scheme to author identification. On the SEA dataset that we used in our experiments, the results were very promising.
52	bayesian	2014	Ursino, M; Cuppini, C; Magosso, E	Neurocomputational approaches to modelling multisensory integration in the brain: A review	NEURAL NETWORKS	The Brain's ability to integrate information from different modalities (multisensory integration) is fundamental for accurate sensory experience and efficient interaction with the environment: it enhances detection of external stimuli, disambiguates conflict situations, speeds up responsiveness, facilitates processes of memory retrieval and object recognition. Multisensory integration operates at several brain levels: in subcortical structures (especially the Superior Colliculus), in higher-level associative cortices (e.g., posterior parietal regions), and even in early cortical areas (such as primary cortices) traditionally considered to be purely unisensory. Because of complex non-linear mechanisms of brain integrative phenomena, a key tool for their understanding is represented by neurocomputational models. This review examines different modelling principles and architectures, distinguishing the models on the basis of their aims: (i) Bayesian models based on probabilities and realizing optimal estimator of external cues; (ii) biologically inspired models of multisensory integration in the Superior Colliculus and in the Cortex, both at level of single neuron and network of neurons, with emphasis on physiological mechanisms and architectural schemes; among the latter, some models exhibit synaptic plasticity and reproduce development of integrative capabilities via Hebbian-learning rules or self-organizing maps; (iii) models of semantic memory that implement object meaning as a fusion between sensory motor features (embodied cognition). This overview paves the way to future challenges, such as reconciling neurophysiological and Bayesian models into a unifying theory, and stimulates upcoming research in both theoretical and applicative domains. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
53	bayesian	2003	Lee, MD; Pope, KJ	Avoiding the dangers of averaging across subjects when using multidimensional scaling	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Ashby, Maddox and Lee (Psychological Science, 5 (3) 144) argue that it can be inappropriate to fit multidimensional scaling (MDS) models to similarity or dissimilarity data that have been averaged across subjects. They demonstrate that the averaging process tends to make dissimilarity data more amenable to metric representations, and conduct a simulation study showing that noisy data generated using one distance metric, when averaged, may be better fit using a different distance metric. This paper argues that a Bayesian measure of MDS models has the potential to address these difficulties, because it takes into account data-fit, the number of dimensions used by an MDS representation, and the precision of the data. A method of analysis based on the Bayesian measure is demonstrated through two simulation studies with accompanying theoretical analysis. In the first study, it is shown that the Bayesian analysis rejects those MDS models showing better fit to averaged data using the incorrect distance metric, while accepting those that use the correct metric. In the second study, different groups of simulated 'subjects' are assumed to use different underlying configurations. In this case, the Bayesian analysis rejects MDS representations where a significant proportion of subjects use different configurations, or when their dissimilarity judgments contain significant amounts of noise. It is concluded that the Bayesian analysis provides a simple and principled means for systematically accepting and rejecting MDS models derived from averaged data. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.
54	bayesian	2015	Bruza, PD; Wang, Z; Busemeyer, JR	Quantum cognition: a new theoretical approach to psychology	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	What type of probability theory best describes the way humans make judgments under uncertainty and decisions under conflict? Although rational models of cognition have become prominent and have achieved much success, they adhere to the laws of classical probability theory despite the fact that human reasoning does not always conform to these laws. For this reason we have seen the recent emergence of models based on an alternative probabilistic framework drawn from quantum theory. These quantum models show promise in addressing cognitive phenomena that have proven recalcitrant to modeling by means of classical probability theory. This review compares and contrasts probabilistic models based on Bayesian or classical versus quantum principles, and highlights the advantages and disadvantages of each approach.
55	bayesian	2015	Oikkonen, J; Huang, Y; Onkamo, P; Ukkola-Vuoti, L; Raijas, P; Karma, K; Vieland, VJ; Jarvela, I	A genome-wide linkage and association study of musical aptitude identifies loci containing genes related to inner ear development and neurocognitive functions	MOLECULAR PSYCHIATRY	Humans have developed the perception, production and processing of sounds into the art of music. A genetic contribution to these skills of musical aptitude has long been suggested. We performed a genome-wide scan in 76 pedigrees (767 individuals) characterized for the ability to discriminate pitch (SP), duration (ST) and sound patterns (KMT), which are primary capacities for music perception. Using the Bayesian linkage and association approach implemented in program package KELVIN, especially designed for complex pedigrees, several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) near genes affecting the functions of the auditory pathway and neurocognitive processes were identified. The strongest association was found at 3q21.3 (rs9854612) with combined SP, ST and KMT test scores (COMB). This region is located a few dozen kilobases upstream of the GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2) gene. GATA2 regulates the development of cochlear hair cells and the inferior colliculus (IC), which are important in tonotopic mapping. The highest probability of linkage was obtained for phenotype SP at 4p14, located next to the region harboring the protocadherin 7 gene, PCDH7. Two SNPs rs13146789 and rs13109270 of PCDH7 showed strong association. PCDH7 has been suggested to play a role in cochlear and amygdaloid complexes. Functional class analysis showed that inner ear and schizophreniarelated genes were enriched inside the linked regions. This study is the first to show the importance of auditory pathway genes in musical aptitude.
56	bayesian	2013	Holden, MP; Newcombe, NS; Shipley, TF	Location memory in the real world: Category adjustment effects in 3-dimensional space	COGNITION	The ability to remember spatial locations is critical to human functioning, both in an evolutionary and in an everyday sense. Yet spatial memories and judgments often show systematic errors and biases. Bias has been explained by models such as the Category Adjustment model (CAM), in which fine-grained and categorical information about locations are combined in a Bayesian manner (Huttenlocher, Hedges, & Duncan, 1991). However, experiments testing this model have largely used locations contained in simple geometric shapes and, more recently, 2D scenes. Do the results generalize to location memory in the complex natural world, as they should if the CAM is to provide an over-arching framework for thinking about spatial memory? Here, this issue is addressed using a novel extension of the location memory paradigm that allows for testing of location memory in an everyday, 3D environment. The results support two predictions of the CAM: that memory for locations is biased toward central values, and that the magnitude of error increases with the retention interval. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
57	bayesian	2012	Navarro, DJ; Dry, MJ; Lee, MD	Sampling Assumptions in Inductive Generalization	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Inductive generalization, where people go beyond the data provided, is a basic cognitive capability, and it underpins theoretical accounts of learning, categorization, and decision making. To complete the inductive leap needed for generalization, people must make a key sampling assumption about how the available data were generated. Previous models have considered two extreme possibilities, known as strong and weak sampling. In strong sampling, data are assumed to have been deliberately generated as positive examples of a concept, whereas in weak sampling, data are assumed to have been generated without any restrictions. We develop a more general account of sampling that allows for an intermediate mixture of these two extremes, and we test its usefulness. In two experiments, we show that most people complete simple one-dimensional generalization tasks in a way that is consistent with their believing in some mixture of strong and weak sampling, but that there are large individual differences in the relative emphasis different people give to each type of sampling. We also show experimentally that the relative emphasis of the mixture is influenced by the structure of the available information. We discuss the psychological meaning of mixing strong and weak sampling, and possible extensions of our modeling approach to richer problems of inductive generalization.
58	bayesian	2011	Chambon, V; Pacherie, E; Barbalat, G; Jacquet, P; Franck, N; Farrer, C	Mentalizing under influence: abnormal dependence on prior expectations in patients with schizophrenia	BRAIN	An impaired ability to appreciate other people's mental states is a well-established and stable cognitive deficit in schizophrenia, which might explain some aspects of patients' social dysfunction. Yet, despite a wealth of literature on this topic, the basic mechanisms underlying these impairments are still poorly understood, and their links with the clinical dimensions of schizophrenia remain unclear. The present study aimed to investigate the extent to which patients' impaired ability to appreciate other people's intentions (known as mentalizing) may be accounted for by abnormal interaction between the two types of information that contribute to this ability: (i) the sensory evidence conveyed by movement kinematics; and (ii) the observer's prior expectations. We hypothesized that this is not a generalized impairment, but one confined to certain types of intentions. To test this assumption, we designed four tasks in which participants were required to infer either: (i) basic intentions (i.e. the simple goal of a motor act); (ii) superordinate intentions (i.e. the general goal of a sequence of motor acts); (iii) social basic; or (iv) social superordinate intentions (i.e. simple or general goals achieved within the context of a reciprocal interaction). In each of these tasks, both prior expectations and sensory information were manipulated. We found that patients correctly inferred non-social, basic intentions, but experienced difficulties when inferring non-social superordinate intentions and both basic and superordinate social intentions. These poor performances were associated with two abnormal patterns of interaction between prior expectations and sensory evidence. In the non-social superordinate condition, patients relied heavily on their prior expectations, while disregarding sensory evidence. This pattern of interaction predicted the severity of 'positive' symptoms. Social conditions prompted exactly the opposite pattern of interaction: patients exhibited weaker dependence on prior expectations while relying strongly on sensory evidence, and this predicted the severity of 'negative' symptoms. We suggest both these patterns can be accounted for by a disturbance in the Bayesian inferential mechanism that integrates sensory evidence (conveyed by movement kinematics) into prior beliefs (about others' mental states and attitudes) to produce accurate inferences about other people's intentions.
59	bayesian	2011	Evans, S; Fleming, SM; Dolan, RJ; Averbeck, BB	Effects of Emotional Preferences on Value-based Decision-making Are Mediated by Mentalizing and Reward Networks	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Real-world decision-making often involves social considerations. Consequently, the social value of stimuli can induce preferences in choice behavior. However, it is unknown how financial and social values are integrated in the brain. Here, we investigated how smiling and angry face stimuli interacted with financial reward feedback in a stochastically rewarded decision-making task. Subjects reliably preferred the smiling faces despite equivalent reward feedback, demonstrating a socially driven bias. We fit a Bayesian reinforcement learning model to factor the effects of financial rewards and emotion preferences in individual subjects, and regressed model predictions on the trial-by-trial fMRI signal. Activity in the subcallosal cingulate and the ventral striatum, both involved in reward learning, correlated with financial reward feedback, whereas the differential contribution of social value activated dorsal temporo-parietal junction and dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, previously proposed as components of a mentalizing network. We conclude that the impact of social stimuli on value-based decision processes is mediated by effects in brain regions partially separable from classical reward circuitry.
60	bayesian	2011	Sonnier, G; Ainslie, A	Estimating the Value of Brand-Image Associations: The Role of General and Specific Brand Image	JOURNAL OF MARKETING RESEARCH	The authors present a Bayesian simultaneous choice factor model that measures consumers' willingness to pay for brand-image associations. Previous research has found that general brand effects influence a brand's scores on specific image dimensions. To investigate the value of general versus specific brand image, the authors specify a higher-order factor model in which a set of correlated factor scores arise from a general brand factor and a set of orthogonal residual scores that measure the specific dimensions of brand image. The general brand factor is consistent with the concept of a halo effect, which theory ascribes to either an overall evaluative effect or errors in cognition. The authors apply the model to stated preference data on branded midsized sedans accompanied by data on consumer brand-image associations. The authors find that there is substantial value for the specific dimensions of brand image, but only after controlling for the general brand effect with the higher-order factor decomposition.
61	bayesian	2010	Vul, E; Bergsma, J; MacLeod, DIA	Functional Adaptive Sequential Testing	SEEING AND PERCEIVING	The study of cognition, perception, and behavior often requires the estimation of thresholds as a function of continuous independent variables (e.g., contrast threshold as a function of spatial frequency, subjective value as a function of reward delay, tracking speed as a function of the number of objects tracked). Unidimensional adaptive testing methods make estimation of single threshold values faster and more efficient, but substantial efficiency can be further gained by taking into account the relationship between thresholds at different values of an independent variable. Here we present a generic method functional adaptive sequential testing (FAST) for estimating thresholds as a function of another variable. This method allows efficient estimation of parameters relating an independent variable (e.g., stimulus spatial frequency; or reward delay) to the measured threshold along a stimulus strength dimension (e.g., contrast; or present monetary value). We formally describe the FAST algorithm and introduce a Matlab toolbox implementation thereof; we then evaluate several possible sampling and estimation algorithms for such two-dimensional functions. Our results demonstrate that efficiency can be substantially increased by considering the functional relationship between thresholds at different values of the independent variable of interest. (C) Koninklijke Brill NV, Leiden, 2010
62	bayesian	2006	Jaeger, J; Tatsuoka, C; Berns, SM; Varadi, F	Distinguishing neurocognitive functions in schizophrenia using partially ordered classification models	SCHIZOPHRENIA BULLETIN	Current methods for statistical analysis of neuropsychological test data in schizophrenia are inherently insufficient for revealing valid cognitive impairment profiles. While neuropsychological tests aim to selectively sample discrete cognitive domains, test performance often requires several cognitive operations or "attributes." Conventional statistical approaches assign each neuropsychological score of interest to a single attribute or "domain" (e.g., attention, executive, etc.), and scores are calculated for each. This can yield misleading information about underlying cognitive impairments. We report findings applying a new method for examining neuropsychological test data in schizophrenia, based on finite partially ordered sets (posets) as classification models. A total of 220 schizophrenia outpatients were administered the Positive and Negative Symptom Scale (PANSS) and a neuropsychological test battery. Selected tests were submitted to cognitive attribute analysis a priori by two neuropsychologists. Applying Bayesian classification methods (posets), each patient was classified with respect to proficiency on the underlying attributes, based upon his or her individual test performance pattern. Twelve cognitive "classes" are described in the sample. Resulting classification models provided detailed "diagnoses" into "attribute-based" profiles of cognitive strength/weakness, mimicking expert clinician judgment. Classification was efficient, requiring few measures to achieve accurate classification. Attributes were associated with PANSS factors in the expected manner (only the negative and cognition factors were associated with the attributes), and a double dissociation was observed in which divergent thinking was selectively associated with negative symptoms, possibly reflecting a manifestation of Kraepelin's hypothesis regarding the impact of volitional disturbances on thought. Using posets for extracting more precise cognitive information from neuropsychological data may reveal more valid cognitive endophenotypes, while dramatically reducing the amount of testing required.
63	bayesian	2006	Jaeger, J; Tatsuoka, C; Berns, S; Varadi, F; Czobor, P; Uzelac, S	Associating functional recovery with neurocognitive profiles identified using partially ordered classification models	SCHIZOPHRENIA RESEARCH	Neurocognitive deficits are a core feature of schizophrenia and a significant cause of functional disability. However, targeting these deficits with new treatment approaches will only yield functional improvements if those cognitive operations that are responsible for different dimensions of functional recovery can be identified. A major challenge is that conventional neuropsychological tests, the most practical tools for broadly sampling cognitive functions in treatment trials, are polyfactorial, so that task performance is influenced by multiple cognitive operations. Hence, it is difficult to pinpoint exactly for which cognitive operations a low scoring subject may have poor functionality. We have previously applied in a neuropsychological test battery administered to 220 patients having schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, Bayesian statistical methods (yielding partially ordered sets, or posets) designed to mimic the expert analysis of a neuropsychologist by classifying patients into discrete groupings or "states" each having a unique cognitive profile. Here, we report on the association of attributes describing these states (viz. working memory, capacity for divergent thinking, cognitive flexibility and psychomotor speed) with two domains of functional outcome (work/education and residential functioning) rated up to 18 months later. After multiplicity correction, only working memory was associated with work/education outcome. While working memory was not associated with residential outcome, the remaining three attributes were. These findings suggest that different neurocognitive operations may be responsible for different outcome domains. Findings support the use of the poset methodology for clarifying patterns of relationships between discrete neurocognitive attributes and domains of functional outcome. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V All rights reserved.
64	bayesian	2015	Kicinski, M; Vermeir, G; Van Larebeke, N; Den Hond, E; Schoeters, G; Bruckers, L; Sioen, I; Bijnens, E; Roels, HA; Baeyens, W; Viaene, MK; Nawrot, TS	Neurobehavioral performance in adolescents is inversely associated with traffic exposure	ENVIRONMENT INTERNATIONAL	On the basis of animal research and epidemiological studies in children and elderly there is a growing concern that traffic exposure may affect the brain. The aim of our study was to investigate the association between traffic exposure and neurobehavioral performance in adolescents. We examined 606 adolescents. To model the exposure, we constructed a traffic exposure factor based on a biomarker of benzene (urinary trans,trans-muconic acid) and the amount of contact with traffic preceding the neurobehavioral examination (using distance-weighted traffic density and time spent in traffic). We used a Bayesian structural equation model to investigate the association between traffic exposure and three neurobehavioral domains: sustained attention, short-term memory, and manual motor speed. A one standard deviation increase in traffic exposure was associated with a 026 standard deviation decrease in sustained attention (95% credible interval: -0.02 to -0.51), adjusting for gender, age, smoking, passive smoking, level of education of the mother, socioeconomic status, time of the day, and day of the week. The associations between traffic exposure and the other neurobehavioral domains studied had the same direction but did not reach the level of statistical significance. The results remained consistent in the sensitivity analysis excluding smokers and passive smokers. The inverse association between sustained attention and traffic exposure was independent of the blood lead level. Our study in adolescents supports the recent findings in children and elderly suggesting that traffic exposure adversely affects the neurobehavioral function. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
65	bayesian	2014	Karr, JE; Areshenkoff, CN; Duggan, EC; Garcia-Barrera, MA	Blast-Related Mild Traumatic Brain Injury: A Bayesian Random-Effects Meta-Analysis on the Cognitive Outcomes of Concussion among Military Personnel	NEUROPSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	Throughout their careers, many soldiers experience repeated blasts exposures from improvised explosive devices, which often involve head injury. Consequentially, blast-related mild Traumatic Brain Injury (mTBI) has become prevalent in modern conflicts, often occuring co-morbidly with psychiatric illness (e.g., post-traumatic stress disorder [PTSD]). In turn, a growing body of research has begun to explore the cognitive and psychiatric sequelae of blast-related mTBI. The current meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the chronic effects of blast-related mTBI on cognitive performance. A systematic review identified 9 studies reporting 12 samples meeting eligibility criteria. A Bayesian random-effects meta-analysis was conducted with cognitive construct and PTSD symptoms explored as moderators. The overall posterior mean effect size and Highest Density Interval (HDI) came to d = -0.12 [-0.21, -0.04], with executive function (-0.16 [-0.31, 0.00]), verbal delayed memory (-0.19 [-0.44, 0.06]) and processing speed (-0.11 [-0.26, 0.01]) presenting as the most sensitive cognitive domains to blast-related mTBI. When dividing executive function into diverse sub-constructs (i.e., working memory, inhibition, set-shifting), set-shifting presented the largest effect size (-0.33 [-0.55, -0.05]). PTSD symptoms did not predict cognitive effects sizes, beta (PTSD) = -0.02 [-0.23, 0.20]. The results indicate a subtle, but chronic cognitive impairment following mTBI, especially in set-shifting, a relevant aspect of executive attention. These findings are consistent with past meta-analyses on multiple mTBI and correspond with past neuroimaging research on the cognitive correlates of white matter damage common in mTBI. However, all studies had cross-sectional designs, which resulted in universally low quality ratings and limited the conclusions inferable from this meta-analysis.
66	bayesian	2014	Singmann, H; Klauer, KC; Kellen, D	Intuitive Logic Revisited: New Data and a Bayesian Mixed Model Meta-Analysis	PLOS ONE	Recent research on syllogistic reasoning suggests that the logical status (valid vs. invalid) of even difficult syllogisms can be intuitively detected via differences in conceptual fluency between logically valid and invalid syllogisms when participants are asked to rate how much they like a conclusion following from a syllogism (Morsanyi & Handley, 2012). These claims of an intuitive logic are at odds with most theories on syllogistic reasoning which posit that detecting the logical status of difficult syllogisms requires effortful and deliberate cognitive processes. We present new data replicating the effects reported by Morsanyi and Handley, but show that this effect is eliminated when controlling for a possible confound in terms of conclusion content. Additionally, we reanalyze three studies (n = 287) without this confound with a Bayesian mixed model meta-analysis (i.e., controlling for participant and item effects) which provides evidence for the null-hypothesis and against Morsanyi and Handley's claim.
67	bayesian	2014	Bartlema, A; Lee, M; Wetzels, R; Vanpaemel, W	A Bayesian hierarchical mixture approach to individual differences: Case studies in selective attention and representation in category learning	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	We demonstrate the potential of using a Bayesian hierarchical mixture approach to model individual differences in cognition. Mixture components can be used to identify latent groups of subjects who use different cognitive processes, while hierarchical distributions can be used to capture more minor variation within each group. We apply Bayesian hierarchical mixture methods in two illustrative applications involving category learning. One focuses on a problem that is typically conceived of as a problem of parameter estimation, while the other focuses on a problem that is traditionally tackled from a model selection perspective. Using both previously published and newly collected data, we demonstrate the flexibility and wide applicability of the hierarchical mixture approach to modeling individual differences. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
68	bayesian	2013	Weisberg, DS; Gopnik, A	Pretense, Counterfactuals, and Bayesian Causal Models: Why What Is Not Real Really Matters	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Young children spend a large portion of their time pretending about non-real situations. Why? We answer this question by using the framework of Bayesian causal models to argue that pretending and counterfactual reasoning engage the same component cognitive abilities: disengaging with current reality, making inferences about an alternative representation of reality, and keeping this representation separate from reality. In turn, according to causal models accounts, counterfactual reasoning is a crucial tool that children need to plan for the future and learn about the world. Both planning with causal models and learning about them require the ability to create false premises and generate conclusions from these premises. We argue that pretending allows children to practice these important cognitive skills. We also consider the prevalence of unrealistic scenarios in children's play and explain how they can be useful in learning, despite appearances to the contrary.
69	bayesian	2012	Schmidl, D; Hug, S; Li, WB; Greiter, MB; Theis, FJ	Bayesian model selection validates a biokinetic model for zirconium processing in humans	BMC SYSTEMS BIOLOGY	Background: In radiation protection, biokinetic models for zirconium processing are of crucial importance in dose estimation and further risk analysis for humans exposed to this radioactive substance. They provide limiting values of detrimental effects and build the basis for applications in internal dosimetry, the prediction for radioactive zirconium retention in various organs as well as retrospective dosimetry. Multi-compartmental models are the tool of choice for simulating the processing of zirconium. Although easily interpretable, determining the exact compartment structure and interaction mechanisms is generally daunting. In the context of observing the dynamics of multiple compartments, Bayesian methods provide efficient tools for model inference and selection. Results: We are the first to apply a Markov chain Monte Carlo approach to compute Bayes factors for the evaluation of two competing models for zirconium processing in the human body after ingestion. Based on in vivo measurements of human plasma and urine levels we were able to show that a recently published model is superior to the standard model of the International Commission on Radiological Protection. The Bayes factors were estimated by means of the numerically stable thermodynamic integration in combination with a recently developed copula-based Metropolis-Hastings sampler. Conclusions: In contrast to the standard model the novel model predicts lower accretion of zirconium in bones. This results in lower levels of noxious doses for exposed individuals. Moreover, the Bayesian approach allows for retrospective dose assessment, including credible intervals for the initially ingested zirconium, in a significantly more reliable fashion than previously possible. All methods presented here are readily applicable to many modeling tasks in systems biology.
70	bayesian	2012	Vahia, IV; Thompson, WK; Depp, CA; Allison, M; Jeste, DV	Developing a dimensional model for successful cognitive and emotional aging	INTERNATIONAL PSYCHOGERIATRICS	Background: There is currently a lack of consensus on the definition of successful aging (SA) and existing implementations have omitted constructs associated with SA. We used empirical methods to develop a dimensional model of SA that incorporates a wider range of associated variables, and we examined the relationship among these components using factor analysis and Bayesian Belief Nets. Methods: We administered a successful aging questionnaire comprising several standardized measures related to SA to a sample of 1948 older women enrolled in the San Diego site of the Women's Health Initiative study. The SA-related variables we included in the model were self-rated successful aging, depression severity, physical and emotional functioning, optimism, resilience, attitude towards own aging, self-efficacy, and cognitive ability. After adjusting for age, education and income, we fitted an exploratory factor analysis model to the SA-related variables and then, in order to address relationships among these factors, we computed a Bayesian Belief Net (BBN) using rotated factor scores. Results: The SA-related variables loaded onto five factors. Based on the loading, we labeled the factors as follows: self-rated successful aging, cognition, psychosocial protective factors, physical functioning, and emotional functioning. In the BBN, self-rated successful aging emerged as the primary downstream factor and exhibited significant partial correlations with psychosocial protective factors, physical/general status and mental/emotional status but not with cognitive ability. Conclusions: Our study represents a step forward in developing a dimensional model of SA. Our findings also point to a potential role for psychiatry in improving successful aging by managing depressive symptoms and developing psychosocial interventions to improve self-efficacy, resilience, and optimism.
71	bayesian	2012	van den Berg, R; Vogel, M; Josic, K; Ma, WJ	Optimal inference of sameness	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Deciding whether a set of objects are the same or different is a cornerstone of perception and cognition. Surprisingly, no principled quantitative model of sameness judgment exists. We tested whether human sameness judgment under sensory noise can be modeled as a form of probabilistically optimal inference. An optimal observer would compare the reliability-weighted variance of the sensory measurements with a set size-dependent criterion. We conducted two experiments, in which we varied set size and individual stimulus reliabilities. We found that the optimal-observer model accurately describes human behavior, outperforms plausible alternatives in a rigorous model comparison, and accounts for three key findings in the animal cognition literature. Our results provide a normative footing for the study of sameness judgment and indicate that the notion of perception as near-optimal inference extends to abstract relations.
72	bayesian	2012	Wan, J; Zhang, ZL; Yan, JW; Li, TY; Rao, BD; Fang, SAF; Kim, S; Risacher, SL; Saykin, AJ; Shen, L	Sparse Bayesian Multi-Task Learning for Predicting Cognitive Outcomes from Neuroimaging Measures in Alzheimer's Disease	2012 IEEE CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER VISION AND PATTERN RECOGNITION (CVPR)	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia that causes progressive impairment of memory and other cognitive functions. Multivariate regression models have been studied in AD for revealing relationships between neuroimaging measures and cognitive scores to understand how structural changes in brain can influence cognitive status. Existing regression methods, however, do not explicitly model dependence relation among multiple scores derived from a single cognitive test. It has been found that such dependence can deteriorate the performance of these methods. To overcome this limitation, we propose an efficient sparse Bayesian multi-task learning algorithm, which adaptively learns and exploits the dependence to achieve improved prediction performance. The proposed algorithm is applied to a real world neuroimaging study in AD to predict cognitive performance using MRI scans. The effectiveness of the proposed algorithm is demonstrated by its superior prediction performance over multiple state-of-the-art competing methods and accurate identification of compact sets of cognition-relevant imaging biomarkers that are consistent with prior knowledge.
73	bayesian	2003	Feng, G	From eye movement to cognition: Toward a general framework of inference. Comment on Liechty et al., 2003	PSYCHOMETRIKA	Liechty, Pieters & Wedel (2003) developed a hidden Markov Model (HMM) to identify the states of an attentional process in an advertisement viewing task. This work is significant because it demonstrates the benefits of stochastic modeling and Bayesian estimation in making inferences about cognitive processes based on eye movement data. One limitation of the proposed approach is that attention is conceptualized as an autonomous random process that is affected neither by the overall layout of the Stimulus nor by the visual information perceived during the current fixation. An alternative model based on the input-output hidden Markov model (IOHMM: Bengio, 1999) is suggested as an extension of the HMM. The need for further studies that validate the HMM classification results is also discussed.
74	bayesian	2016	Adams, RA; Huys, QJM; Roiser, JP	Computational Psychiatry: towards a mathematically informed understanding of mental illness	JOURNAL OF NEUROLOGY NEUROSURGERY AND PSYCHIATRY	Computational Psychiatry aims to describe the relationship between the brain's neurobiology, its environment and mental symptoms in computational terms. In so doing, it may improve psychiatric classification and the diagnosis and treatment of mental illness. It can unite many levels of description in a mechanistic and rigorous fashion, while avoiding biological reductionism and artificial categorisation. We describe how computational models of cognition can infer the current state of the environment and weigh up future actions, and how these models provide new perspectives on two example disorders, depression and schizophrenia. Reinforcement learning describes how the brain can choose and value courses of actions according to their long-term future value. Some depressive symptoms may result from aberrant valuations, which could arise from prior beliefs about the loss of agency ('helplessness'), or from an inability to inhibit the mental exploration of aversive events. Predictive coding explains how the brain might perform Bayesian inference about the state of its environment by combining sensory data with prior beliefs, each weighted according to their certainty (or precision). Several cortical abnormalities in schizophrenia might reduce precision at higher levels of the inferential hierarchy, biasing inference towards sensory data and away from prior beliefs. We discuss whether striatal hyperdopaminergia might have an adaptive function in this context, and also how reinforcement learning and incentive salience models may shed light on the disorder. Finally, we review some of Computational Psychiatry's applications to neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, and some pitfalls to avoid when applying its methods.
75	bayesian	2015	Moulin-Frier, C; Diard, J; Schwartz, JL; Bessiere, P	COSMO ("Communicating about Objects using Sensory-Motor Operations"): A Bayesian modeling framework for studying speech communication and the emergence of phonological systems	JOURNAL OF PHONETICS	While the origin of language remains a somewhat mysterious process, understanding how human language takes specific forms appears to be accessible by the experimental method. Languages, despite their wide variety, display obvious regularities. In this paper, we attempt to derive some properties of phonological systems (the sound systems for human languages) from speech communication principles. We introduce a model of the cognitive architecture of a communicating agent, called COSMO (for "Communicating about Objects using Sensory-Motor Operations') that allows a probabilistic expression of the main theoretical trends found in the speech production and perception literature. This enables a computational comparison of these theoretical trends, which helps us to identify the conditions that favor the emergence of linguistic codes. We present realistic simulations of phonological system emergence showing that COSMO is able to predict the main regularities in vowel, stop consonant and syllable systems in human languages. (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
76	bayesian	2015	Nienborg, H; Roelfsema, PR	Belief states as a framework to explain extra-retinal influences in visual cortex	CURRENT OPINION IN NEUROBIOLOGY	The activity of sensory neurons is modulated by non-sensory influences, but the role of these influences in cognition is only partially understood. Here we review how the large-scale recording of neuronal activity within and across brain regions allows researchers to examine the interactions between simultaneously recorded neurons as they are jointly influenced by fluctuations in an animal's mental state. We focus on studies on the visual cortex of non-human primates to examine the relationship between extra-retinal influences and beliefs about the state of the sensory world. We explore how these influences can be understood within theoretical frameworks that propose how the continuous updating of belief states supports perceptual inference.
77	bayesian	2015	Griffiths, TL; Lieder, F; Goodman, ND	Rational Use of Cognitive Resources: Levels of Analysis Between the Computational and the Algorithmic	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Marr's levels of analysiscomputational, algorithmic, and implementationhave served cognitive science well over the last 30years. But the recent increase in the popularity of the computational level raises a new challenge: How do we begin to relate models at different levels of analysis? We propose that it is possible to define levels of analysis that lie between the computational and the algorithmic, providing a way to build a bridge between computational- and algorithmic-level models. The key idea is to push the notion of rationality, often used in defining computational-level models, deeper toward the algorithmic level. We offer a simple recipe for reverse-engineering the mind's cognitive strategies by deriving optimal algorithms for a series of increasingly more realistic abstract computational architectures, which we call resource-rational analysis.
78	bayesian	2014	Boogert, NJ; Nightingale, GF; Hoppitt, W; Laland, KN	Perching but not foraging networks predict the spread of novel foraging skills in starlings	BEHAVIOURAL PROCESSES	The directed social learning hypothesis suggests that information does not spread evenly through animal groups, but rather individual characteristics and patterns of physical proximity guide the social transmission of information along specific pathways. Network-based diffusion analysis (NBDA) allows researchers to test whether information spreads following a social network. However, the explanatory power of different social networks has rarely been compared, and current models do not easily accommodate random effects (e.g. allowing for individuals within groups to correlate in their asocial solving rates). We tested whether the spread of two novel foraging skills through captive starling groups was affected by individual- and group-level random and fixed effects (i.e. sex, age, body condition, dominance rank and demonstrator status) and perching or foraging networks. We extended NBDA to include random effects and conducted model discrimination in a Bayesian context. We found that social learning increased the rate at which birds acquired the novel foraging task solutions by 6.67 times, and acquiring one of the two novel foraging task solutions facilitated the asocial acquisition of the other. Surprisingly, the spread of task solutions followed the perching rather than the foraging social network. Upon acquiring a task solution, foraging performance was facilitated by the presence of group mates. Our results highlight the importance of considering more than one social network when predicting the spread of information through animal groups. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Cognition in the wild. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
79	bayesian	2014	Hahn, U	The Bayesian boom: good thing or bad?	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	A series of high-profile critiques of Bayesian models of cognition have recently sparked controversy. These critiques question the contribution of rational, normative considerations in the study of cognition. The present article takes central claims from these critiques and evaluates them in light of specific models. Closer consideration of actual examples of Bayesian treatments of different cognitive phenomena allows one to defuse these critiques showing that they cannot be sustained across the diversity of applications of the Bayesian framework for cognitive modeling. More generally, there is nothing in the Bayesian framework that would inherently give rise to the deficits that these critiques perceive, suggesting they have been framed at the wrong level of generality. At the same time, the examples are used to demonstrate the different ways in which consideration of rationality uniquely benefits both theory and practice in the study of cognition.
80	bayesian	2014	Schuwerk, T; Dohnel, K; Sodian, B; Keck, IR; Rupprecht, R; Sommer, M	Functional activity and effective connectivity of the posterior medial prefrontal cortex during processing of incongruent mental states	HUMAN BRAIN MAPPING	The neurocognitive components of Theory of Mind reasoning remain poorly understood. In particular the role of the posterior medial prefrontal cortex in the processing of other's mental states such as beliefs that are incongruent with one's own knowledge of reality is not clear-cut. It is unknown whether this region is involved in computing discrepant mental states or in subsequently resolving a response conflict between the discrepant others' and one's own beliefs. To test this, we adapted a false belief paradigm for the separate inspection of functional brain activity related to (1) the computation of diverging beliefs and (2) the subsequent consideration and selection of another's or one's own belief. Based on statistical parametric findings from functional neuroimaging, we employed dynamic causal modelling combined with Bayesian model selection to further characterize the interplay of resulting brain regions. In the initial computation of diverging beliefs, the posterior medial prefrontal cortex (pMPFC) and the bilateral temporoparietal cortex were crucially involved. The findings suggest that the bilateral temporal cortex engages in the construction and adjustment of diverging mental states by encoding relevant environmental information. The pMPFC inhibits this stimulus-bound processing which helps to compute discrepant mental states and process another's false belief decoupled from one's own perception of reality. In the subsequent question phase the right temporoparietal cortex showed increased activity related to switching to and reconsidering another's beliefs in order to select the correct response. Hum Brain Mapp 35:2950-2965, 2014. (c) 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
81	bayesian	2013	Kwisthout, J; van Rooij, I	Bridging the gap between theory and practice of approximate Bayesian inference	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	In computational cognitive science, many cognitive processes seem to be successfully modeled as Bayesian computations. Yet, many such Bayesian computations have been proven to be computationally intractable (NP-hard) for unconstrained input domains, even if only an approximate solution is sought. This computational complexity result seems to be in strong contrast with the ease and speed with which humans can typically make the inferences that are modeled by Bayesian models. This contrast-between theory and practice-poses a considerable theoretical challenge for computational cognitive modelers: How can intractable Bayesian computations be transformed into computationally plausible 'approximate' models of human cognition? In this paper, three candidate notions of 'approximation' are discussed, each of which has been suggested in the cognitive science literature. We will sketch how (parameterized) computational complexity analyses can yield model variants that are tractable and which can serve as the basis of computationally plausible models of cognition. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
82	bayesian	2013	Turner, BM; Dennis, S; Van Zandt, T	Likelihood-Free Bayesian Analysis of Memory Models	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Many influential memory models are computational in the sense that their predictions are derived through simulation. This means that it is difficult or impossible to write down a probability distribution or likelihood that characterizes the random behavior of the data as a function of the model's parameters. In turn, the lack of a likelihood means that these models cannot be directly fitted to data using traditional techniques. In particular, standard Bayesian analyses of such models are impossible. In this article, we examine how a new procedure called approximate Bayesian computation (ABC), a method for Bayesian analysis that circumvents the evaluation of the likelihood, can be used to fit computational models to memory data. In particular, we investigate the bind cue decide model of episodic memory (Dennis & Humphreys, 2001) and the retrieving effectively from memory model (Shiffrin & Steyvers, 1997). We fit hierarchical versions of each model to the data of Dennis, Lee, and Kinnell (2008) and Kinnell and Dennis (2012). The ABC analysis permits us to explore the relationships between the parameters in each model as well as evaluate their relative fits to data analyses that were not previously possible.
83	bayesian	2013	Kruschke, JK	Posterior predictive checks can and should be Bayesian: Comment on Gelman and Shalizi, Philosophy and the practice of Bayesian statistics'	BRITISH JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL & STATISTICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Bayesian inference is conditional on the space of models assumed by the analyst. The posterior distribution indicates only which of the available parameter values are less bad than the others, without indicating whether the best available parameter values really fit the data well. A posterior predictive check is important to assess whether the posterior predictions of the least bad parameters are discrepant from the actual data in systematic ways. Gelman and Shalizi (2012a) assert that the posterior predictive check, whether done qualitatively or quantitatively, is non-Bayesian. I suggest that the qualitative posterior predictive check might be Bayesian, and the quantitative posterior predictive check should be Bayesian. In particular, I show that the Bayesian p-value, from which an analyst attempts to reject a model without recourse to an alternative model, is ambiguous and inconclusive. Instead, the posterior predictive check, whether qualitative or quantitative, should be consummated with Bayesian estimation of an expanded model. The conclusion agrees with Gelman and Shalizi regarding the importance of the posterior predictive check for breaking out of an initially assumed space of models. Philosophically, the conclusion allows the liberation to be completely Bayesian instead of relying on a non-Bayesian deus ex machina. Practically, the conclusion cautions against use of the Bayesian p-value in favour of direct model expansion and Bayesian evaluation.
84	bayesian	2012	Hornikx, J; Hahn, U	Reasoning and argumentation: Towards an integrated psychology of argumentation Introduction	THINKING & REASONING	Although argumentation plays an essential role in our lives, there is no integrated area of research on the psychology of argumentation. Instead research on argumentation is conducted in a number of separate research communities that are spread across disciplines and have only limited interaction. With a view to bridging these different strands, we first distinguish between three meanings of the word "argument": argument as a reason, argument as a structured sequence of reasons and claims, and argument as a social exchange. All three meanings are integral to a complete understanding of human reasoning and cognition. Cognitive psychological research on argumentation has focused mostly on the first and second of these meanings, so we present perspectives on argumentation from outside of cognitive psychology, which focus on the second and third. Specifically, we give an overview of the methods, goals, and disciplinary backgrounds of research on the production, the analysis, and the evaluation of arguments. Finally, in introducing the experimental studies included in this special issue, which were conducted by researchers from a range of theoretical backgrounds, we underline the breadth of argumentation research as well as stress opportunities for mutual awareness and integration.
85	bayesian	2011	Voorspoels, W; Vanpaemel, W; Storms, G	A formal ideal-based account of typicality	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Inspired by Barsalou's (Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 11, 629-654, 1985) proposal that categories can be represented by ideals, we develop and test a computational model, the ideal dimension model (IDM). The IDM is tested in its account of the typicality gradient for 11 superordinate natural language concepts and, using Bayesian model evaluation, contrasted with a standard exemplar model and a central prototypemodel. The IDMis found to capture typicality better than do the exemplar model and the central tendency prototype model, in terms of both goodness of fit and generalizability. The present findings challenge the dominant view that exemplar representations are most successful and present compelling evidence that superordinate natural language categories can be represented using an abstract summary, in the form of ideal representations. Supplemental appendices for this article can be downloaded from http://mc.psychonomic-journals.org/content/supplemental.
86	bayesian	2016	Seth, AK; Friston, KJ	Active interoceptive inference and the emotional brain	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	We review a recent shift in conceptions of interoception and its relationship to hierarchical inference in the brain. The notion of interoceptive inference means that bodily states are regulated by autonomic reflexes that are enslaved by descending predictions from deep generative models of our internal and external milieu. This re-conceptualization illuminates several issues in cognitive and clinical neuroscience with implications for experiences of selfhood and emotion. We first contextualize interoception in terms of active (Bayesian) inference in the brain, highlighting its enactivist (embodied) aspects. We then consider the key role of uncertainty or precision and how this might translate into neuromodulation. We next examine the implications for understanding the functional anatomy of the emotional brain, surveying recent observations on agranular cortex. Finally, we turn to theoretical issues, namely, the role of interoception in shaping a sense of embodied self and feelings. We will draw links between physiological homoeostasis and allostasis, early cybernetic ideas of predictive control and hierarchical generative models in predictive processing. The explanatory scope of interoceptive inference ranges from explanations for autism and depression, through to consciousness. We offer a brief survey of these exciting developments. This article is part of the themed issue 'Interoception beyond homeostasis: affect, cognition and mental health'.
87	bayesian	2016	Motter, JN; Pimontel, MA; Rindskopf, D; Devanand, DP; Doraiswamy, PM; Sneed, JR	Computerized cognitive training and functional recovery in major depressive disorder: A meta-analysis	JOURNAL OF AFFECTIVE DISORDERS	Objective: Depression is common, frequently resistant to antidepressant treatment, and associated with impairments in cognition and everyday functioning. Computerized cognitive training (CCT) paradigms offer potential to improve cognition, mood and everyday functioning, but their effectiveness is not well established. The goal of this article was to conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis to determine the efficacy of CCT in depressive disorders. Method: A search was conducted to identify high quality randomized controlled CCT trials per PRISMA guidelines using PsycINFO and MEDLINE with the keywords "Cognitive training" or "Cognitive remediation" or "Cognitive rehabilitation" and "Depression". 9 randomized trials for depressed adults met inclusion criteria. Effect sizes (Hedge's g) were calculated for key outcome measures of mood symptom severity, daily functioning, and cognition. A 3-level Bayesian hierarchical linear model was used to estimate effect sizes for each domain and study. Publication bias was assessed using Classic Fail Safe N's and homogeneity was evaluated using Q and I-2 indexes. Results: Significant small-moderate effects for Symptom Severity (043) and Daily Functioning (0.72), and moderate-large effects for Attention (0.67), Working Memory (0.72), and Global Functioning (1.05) were found. No significant effects were found for Executive Functioning or Verbal Memory. Moderator variable analysis revealed decreased effect of CCT with age. Gender and concurrent medication treatment did not affect the results. Limitations: Small sample size, short duration, pseudo-specificity, and high heterogeneity for Verbal Memory measures. Conclusions: CCT is associated with improvement in depressive symptoms and everyday functioning, though produces inconsistent effects on cognition. (C) 2015 Published by Elsevier B.V.
88	bayesian	2015	Hoffman, DD; Singh, M; Prakash, C	The Interface Theory of Perception	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Perception is a product of evolution. Our perceptual systems, like our limbs and livers, have been shaped by natural selection. The effects of selection on perception can be studied using evolutionary games and genetic algorithms. To this end, we define and classify perceptual strategies and allow them to compete in evolutionary games in a variety of worlds with a variety of fitness functions. We find that veridical perceptions-strategies tuned to the true structure of the world-are routinely dominated by nonveridical strategies tuned to fitness. Veridical perceptions escape extinction only if fitness varies monotonically with truth. Thus, a perceptual strategy favored by selection is best thought of not as a window on truth but as akin to a windows interface of a PC. Just as the color and shape of an icon for a text file do not entail that the text file itself has a color or shape, so also our perceptions of space-time and objects do not entail (by the Invention of Space-Time Theorem) that objective reality has the structure of space-time and objects. An interface serves to guide useful actions, not to resemble truth. Indeed, an interface hides the truth; for someone editing a paper or photo, seeing transistors and firmware is an irrelevant hindrance. For the perceptions of H. sapiens, space-time is the desktop and physical objects are the icons. Our perceptions of space-time and objects have been shaped by natural selection to hide the truth and guide adaptive behaviors. Perception is an adaptive interface.
89	bayesian	2015	Wells, GL; Smalarz, L; Smith, AM	ROC analysis of lineups does not measure underlying discriminability and has limited value	JOURNAL OF APPLIED RESEARCH IN MEMORY AND COGNITION	Some researchers have been arguing that eyewitness identification data from lineups should be analyzed using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis because it purportedly measures underlying discriminability. But ROC analysis, which was designed for 2 x 2 tasks, does not fit the 3 x 2 structure of lineups. Accordingly, ROC proponents force lineup data into a 2 x 2 structure by treating false-positive identifications of lineup fillers as though they were rejections. Using data from lineups versus showups, we illustrate how this approach misfires as a measure of underlying discriminability. Moreover, treating false-positive identifications of fillers as if they were rejections hides one of the most important phenomena in eyewitness lineups, namely filler siphoning. Filler siphoning reduces the risk of mistaken identification by drawing false-positive identifications away from the innocent suspect and onto lineup fillers. We show that ROC analysis confuses filler siphoning with an improvement in underlying discriminability, thereby fostering misleading theoretical conclusions about how lineups work. (C) 2015 Society for Applied Research in Memory and Cognition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
90	bayesian	2015	Johnson, ED; Tubau, E	Comprhension and computation in Bayesian problem solving	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Humans have long been characterized as poor probabilistic reasoners when presented with explicit numerical information. Bayesian word problems provide a well-known example of this, where even highly educated and cognitively skilled individuals fail to adhere to mathematical norms. It is widely agreed that natural frequencies can facilitate Bayesian inferences relative to normalized formats (e.g., probabilities, percentages), both by clarifying logical set-subset relations and by simplifying numerical calculations. Nevertheless, between-study performance on "transparent" Bayesian problems varies widely, and generally remains rather unimpressive. We suggest there has been an over-focus on this representational facilitator (i.e., transparent problem structures) at the expense of the specific logical and numerical processing requirements and the corresponding individual abilities and skills necessary for providing Bayesian-like output given specific verbal and numerical input. We further suggest that understanding this task-individual pair could benefit from considerations from the literature on mathematical cognition, which emphasizes text comprehension and problem solving, along with contributions of online executive working memory, metacognitive regulation, and relevant stored knowledge and skills. We conclude by offering avenues for future research aimed at identifying the stages in problem solving at which correct vs. incorrect reasoners depart, and how individual differences might influence this time point.
91	bayesian	2015	Huang, XL; Hu, F; Wu, J; Chen, HH; Wang, G; Jiang, T	Intelligent Cooperative Spectrum Sensing via Hierarchical Dirichlet Process in Cognitive Radio Networks	IEEE JOURNAL ON SELECTED AREAS IN COMMUNICATIONS	Cognitive radio (CR) is a critical technology for improving spectrum utilization and solving the radio spectrum scarcity problem. In CR devices, spectrum sensing is important to implement opportunistic spectrum access. Many spectrum sensing schemes have been proposed, including uncooperative, cooperative, centralized, and distributed algorithms. However, they aimed to obtain a global consensus sensing result, which may not always be possible in large-scale cognitive radio networks (CRNs) due to heterogeneous spectrum availability in different areas. Hence, some new spectrum sensing schemes should be designed to discover idle heterogeneous spectrum in CRNs. In this paper, we propose an intelligent cooperative spectrum sensing algorithm based on a non-parametric Bayesian learning model, namely the hierarchical Dirichlet process, which groups spectrum sensing data without the need to know the number of hidden spectrum states, and discovers a common sparse spectrum within each group. Furthermore, a concisely distributed information exchange scheme is designed, where intra-cluster and inter-cluster spectrum information is shared for global spectrum cognition. Experimental results show that the proposed algorithm can exploit the spatial relationship among sensed data to achieve a better spectrum sensing performance in terms of detection probability and false alarm probability.
92	bayesian	2014	Bonawitz, E; Denison, S; Gopnik, A; Griffiths, TL	Win-Stay, Lose-Sample: A simple sequential algorithm for approximating Bayesian inference	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	People can behave in a way that is consistent with Bayesian models of cognition, despite the fact that performing exact Bayesian inference is computationally challenging. What algorithms could people be using to make this possible? We show that a simple sequential algorithm "Win-Stay, Lose-Sample", inspired by the Win-Stay, Lose-Shift (WSLS) principle, can be used to approximate Bayesian inference. We investigate the behavior of adults and preschoolers on two causal learning tasks to test whether people might use a similar algorithm. These studies use a "mini-microgenetic method", investigating how people sequentially update their beliefs as they encounter new evidence. Experiment 1 investigates a deterministic causal learning scenario and Experiments 2 and 3 examine how people make inferences in a stochastic scenario. The behavior of adults and preschoolers in these experiments is consistent with our Bayesian version of the WSLS principle. This algorithm provides both a practical method for performing Bayesian inference and a new way to understand people's judgments. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
93	bayesian	2014	Kording, KP	Bayesian statistics: relevant for the brain?	CURRENT OPINION IN NEUROBIOLOGY	Analyzing data from experiments involves variables that we neuroscientists are uncertain about. Efficiently calculating with such variables usually requires Bayesian statistics. As it is crucial when analyzing complex data, it seems natural, that the brain would "use" such statistics to analyze data from the world. And indeed, recent studies in the areas of perception, action, and cognition suggest that Bayesian behavior is widespread, in many modalities and species. Consequently, many models have suggested that the brain is built on simple Bayesian principles. While the brain's code is probably not actually simple, I believe that Bayesian principles will facilitate the construction of faithful models of the brain.
94	bayesian	2014	Moutoussis, M; Trujillo-Barreto, NJ; El-Deredy, W; Dolan, RJ; Friston, KJ	A formal model of interpersonal inference	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Introduction: We propose that active Bayesian inference-a general framework for decision-making-can equally be applied to interpersonal exchanges. Social cognition, however, entails special challenges. We address these challenges through a novel formulation of a formal model and demonstrate its psychological significance. Method: We review relevant literature, especially with regards to interpersonal representations, formulate a mathematical model and present a simulation study. The model accommodates normative models from utility theory and places them within the broader setting of Bayesian inference. Crucially, we endow people's prior beliefs, into which utilities are absorbed, with preferences of self and others. The simulation illustrates the model's dynamics and furnishes elementary predictions of the theory. Results: (1) Because beliefs about self and others inform both the desirability and plausibility of outcomes, in this framework interpersonal representations become beliefs that have to be actively inferred. This inference, akin to "mentalizing" in the psychological literature, is based upon the outcomes of interpersonal exchanges. (2) We show how some well-known social-psychological phenomena (e.g., self-serving biases) can be explained in terms of active interpersonal inference. (3) Mentalizing naturally entails Bayesian updating of how people value social outcomes. Crucially this includes inference about one's own qualities and preferences. Conclusion: We inaugurate a Bayes optimal framework for modeling intersubject variability in mentalizing during interpersonal exchanges. Here, interpersonal representations are endowed with explicit functional and affective properties. We suggest the active inference framework lends itself to the study of psychiatric conditions where mentalizing is distorted.
95	bayesian	2013	Qamar, AT; Cotton, RJ; George, RG; Beck, JM; Prezhdo, E; Laudano, A; Tolias, AS; Ma, WJ	Trial-to-trial, uncertainty-based adjustment of decision boundaries in visual categorization	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Categorization is a cornerstone of perception and cognition. Computationally, categorization amounts to applying decision boundaries in the space of stimulus features. We designed a visual categorization task in which optimal performance requires observers to incorporate trial-to-trial knowledge of the level of sensory uncertainty when setting their decision boundaries. We found that humans and monkeys did adjust their decision boundaries from trial to trial as the level of sensory noise varied, with some subjects performing near optimally. We constructed a neural network that implements uncertainty-based, near-optimal adjustment of decision boundaries. Divisive normalization emerges automatically as a key neural operation in this network. Our results offer an integrated computational and mechanistic framework for categorization under uncertainty.
96	bayesian	2013	Ames, DL; Fiske, ST	Outcome dependency alters the neural substrates of impression formation	NEUROIMAGE	How do people maintain consistent impressions of other people when other people are often inconsistent? The present research addresses this question by combining recent neuroscientific insights with ecologically meaningful behavioral methods. Participants formed impressions of real people whom they met in a personally involving situation. fMRI and supporting behavioral data revealed that outcome dependency (i.e., depending on another person for a desired outcome) alters previously identified neural dynamics of impression formation. Consistent with past research, a functional localizer identified a region of dorsomedial PFC previously linked to social impression formation. In the main task, this ROI revealed the predicted patterns of activity across outcome dependency conditions: greater BOLD response when information confirmed (vs. violated) social expectations if participants were outcome-independent and the reverse pattern if participants were outcome-dependent. We suggest that, although social perceivers often discount expectancy-disconfirming information as noise, being dependent on another person for a desired outcome focuses impression-formation processing on the most diagnostic information, rather than on the most tractable information. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
97	bayesian	2013	Theijssen, D; ten Bosch, L; Boves, L; Cranen, B; van Halteren, H	Choosing alternatives: Using Bayesian Networks and memory-based learning to study the dative alternation	CORPUS LINGUISTICS AND LINGUISTIC THEORY	In existing research on syntactic alternations such as the dative alternation, (give her the apple vs. give the apple to her), the linguistic data is often analysed with the help of logistic regression models. In this article, we evaluate the use of logistic regression for this type of research, and present two different approaches: Bayesian Networks and Memory-based learning. For the Bayesian Network, we use the higher-level semantic features suggested in the literature, while we limit ourselves to lexical items in the memory-based approach. We evaluate the suitability of the three approaches by applying them to a large data set (> 11,000 instances) extracted from the British National Corpus, and comparing their quality in terms of classification accuracy, their interpretability in the context of linguistic research, and their actual classification of individual cases. Our main finding is that the classifications are very similar across the three approaches, also when employing lexical items instead of the higher-level features, because most of the alternation is determined by the verb and the length of the two objects (here: her and the apple).
98	bayesian	2012	Bruce, NI; Peters, K; Naik, PA	Discovering How Advertising Grows Sales and Builds Brands	JOURNAL OF MARKETING RESEARCH	Advertising nudges consumers along the think feel-do hierarchy of intermediate effects of advertising to induce sales. Because intermediate effects-cognition, affect, and experience-are unobservable constructs, brand managers use a battery of mind-set metrics to assess how advertising builds brands. However, extant sales response models explain how advertising grows-sales but ignore the role of intermediate effects in building brands. To link these dual contributions of advertising, the authors propose an integrated framework that augments the dynamic advertising sales response model by integrating the hierarchy, dynamic evolution, and purchase reinforcement of intermediate effects. Methodologically, the new approach incorporates the intermediate effects as factors from mind-set metrics while filtering out measurement noise, extracts the factor loadings, estimates the dynamic evolution of the factors, and infers their sequence in any hypothesized hierarchy by embedding their impact in a dynamic advertising sales response model. The authors apply the proposed model and associated method to a major brand to discover the brand's operating hierarchy (advertising -> experience -> cognition -> affect <-> sales). The results provide the first empirical evidence that intermediate effects are indeed dynamic constructs, that purchase reinforcement effects exist not only for experience but also for other intermediate effects, and that advertising simultaneously contributes to both sales growth and brand building. Thus, both researchers and managers should consider using the proposed framework to capture advertising's dual contributions of building brands and growing sales.
99	bayesian	2012	Curcic-Blake, B; Swart, M; Aleman, A	Bidirectional Information Flow in Frontoamygdalar Circuits in Humans: A Dynamic Causal Modeling Study of Emotional Associative Learning	CEREBRAL CORTEX	Everyday language is replete with descriptions of emotional events that people have experienced and wish to share with others. Such descriptions presumably rely on pairings of affective words and visual information (such as events and pictures) that have been learnt throughout one's development. To study this kind of affective language learning in the brain, we used functional neuroimaging during associative learning of emotional words and pictures. Brain imaging revealed increased activation of both primary emotional areas such as the amygdala and of higher cognitive areas such as the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and medial frontal gyrus. The dynamic causal modeling with Bayesian model selection suggested that the IFG first receives the input and that the connections are bidirectional, suggesting that during such emotional picture-word pair learning, the frontal cortex drives the amygdala activation. Specifically, the interaction between the frontal regions and the amygdala was enhanced by active learning involving both negative and positive emotional stimuli as compared with neutral stimuli. This circuit (especially for negative stimuli) converges with emotion regulation circuits. The enhancement in the connectivity might be responsible for the emotional memory effect in this type of learning.
100	bayesian	2011	Lee, MD; Zhang, SN; Shi, J	The wisdom of the crowd playing The Price Is Right	MEMORY & COGNITION	In The Price Is Right game show, players compete to win a prize, by placing bids on its price. We ask whether it is possible to achieve a "wisdom of the crowd" effect, by combining the bids to produce an aggregate price estimate that is superior to the estimates of individual players. Using data from the game show, we show that a wisdom of the crowd effect is possible, especially by using models of the decision-making processes involved in bidding. The key insight is that, because of the competitive nature of the game, what people bid is not necessarily the same as what they know. This means better estimates are formed by aggregating latent knowledge than by aggregating observed bids. We use our results to highlight the usefulness of models of cognition and decision-making in studying the wisdom of the crowd, which are often approached only from non-psychological statistical perspectives.
101	connectionism	1992	HAMPSHIRE, JB; WAIBEL, A	THE META-PI NETWORK - BUILDING DISTRIBUTED KNOWLEDGE REPRESENTATIONS FOR ROBUST MULTISOURCE PATTERN-RECOGNITION	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE	We present a multinetwork connectionist classifier that forms distributed low-level knowledge representations for robust pattern recognition, given random feature vectors generated by multiple statistically distinct sources. The architecture comprises a number of source-dependent modules (i.e., each module is trained to classify patterns from one particular source) that are linked by a combinational superstructure. The superstructure adapts to the source being processed, integrating source-dependent classifications based on its internal assessment of the source model or combination of source models most likely to classify the input signal correctly. To train this combinational network, we have developed a new form of multiplicative connection, which we call the "Meta-Pi" connection; its function is closely aligned with predecessors described in [3], [29], and [31]. We illustrate how the Meta-Pi paradigm implements an adaptive Bayesian maximum a posteriori (MAP) classifier. We demonstrate its performance in the context of multispeaker phoneme recognition. In this task, the Meta-Pi superstructure combines speaker-dependent time-delay neural network (TDNN) modules to perform multispeaker /b, d, g/ phoneme recognition with speaker-dependent error rates (2 %). Finally, we apply the Meta-Pi architecture to a limited source-independent recognition task, illustrating its discrimination of a novel source. We demonstrate that it can adapt to the novel source (speaker), given five adaptation examples of each of the three phonemes; the resulting error rate of 7 % is approximately three times that of a typical source-dependent classifier. Longer term adaptation yields discrimination that is comparable with a speaker-dependent classifier of the novel source. We conclude with an assessment of our experimental results and their implications for larger real-world multisource and source-independent pattern recognition systems.
102	connectionism	2006	Shagrir, O	Why we view the brain as a computer	SYNTHESE	The view that the brain is a sort of computer has functioned as a theoretical guideline both in cognitive science and, more recently, in neuroscience. But since we can view every physical system as a computer, it has been less than clear what this view amounts to. By considering in some detail a seminal study in computational neuroscience, I first suggest that neuroscientists invoke the computational outlook to explain regularities that are formulated in terms of the information content of electrical signals. I then indicate why computational theories have explanatory force with respect to these regularities:in a nutshell, they underscore correspondence relations between formal/mathematical properties of the electrical signals and formal/mathematical properties of the represented objects. I finally link my proposal to the philosophical thesis that content plays an essential role in computational taxonomy.
103	connectionism	2002	Bowers, JS	Challenging the widespread assumption that connectionism and distributed representations go hand-in-hand	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	One of the central claims associated with the parallel distributed processing approach popularized by D.E. Rumelhart. J.L. McClelland and the PDP Research Group is that knowledge is coded in a distributed fashion, Localist representations within this perspective are widely rejected. It is important to note, however, that connectionist networks can learn localist representations and many connectionist models depend on localist coding for their functioning. Accordingly. a commitment to distributed representations Should be considered a specific theoretical claim regarding the structure of knowledge rather than a core principle, as often assumed. In this paper. it is argued that there are fundamental computational and empirical challenges that have not yet been addressed by distributed connectionist theories that are readily accommodated within localist approaches. This is highlighted in the context of modeling word and nonword naming, the domain in which some of the strongest claims have been made. It is shogun that Current PDP models provide a poor account of naming monosyllable items, and that distributed representations make it difficult for these models to scale LIP to more complex language phenomena. At the same time, models that learn localist representations are shown to hold promise in supporting many of the core reading and language functions on which PDP models fail. It is concluded that the common rejection of localist coding schemes within connectionist architectures is premature. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.
104	connectionism	2001	Berent, I; Everett, DL; Shimron, J	Do phonological representations specify variables? Evidence from the Obligatory Contour Principle	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Mental variables are central to symbolic accounts of cognition. Conversely, according to the pattern associator hypothesis, variables are obsolete. We examine the representation of variables by investigating the Obligatory Contour Principle (OCP, McCarthy, 1986) in Hebrew. The OCP constrains gemination in Hebrew roots. Gemination is well formed at the root's end (e.g., SMM), but not in its beginning (e.g., SSM). Roots and geminates, however, are variables; hence, according to the pattern associator view, the OCP is unrepresentable. Three experiments demonstrate that speakers are sensitive to the presence of root gemination and constrain its location. In forming words from novel biconsonantal roots, speakers prefer to reduplicate the root's final over its initial radical, and they rate such outputs as more acceptable. The avoidance or rejection of root-initial gemination is independent of its position in the word and is inexplicable by the statistical frequency of root tokens. Our results suggest that linguistic representations specify variables. Speakers' competence, however, is governed by violable constraints. (C) 2000 Academic Press.
105	connectionism	2001	Friston, KJ; Price, CJ	Generative models, brain function and neuroimaging	SCANDINAVIAN JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	The representational capacity and inherent function of any neuron, neuronal population or cortical area in the brain is dynamic and context-sensitive. Functional integration, or interactions among brain systems, that employ driving (bottom up) and backward (top-down) connections, mediate this adaptive and contextual specialisation. A critical consequence is that neuronal responses, in any given cortical area, can represent different things at different times. This can have fundamental implications for the design of brain imaging experiments and the interpretation of their results. Our arguments are developed under generative models of brain function, where higher-level systems provide a prediction of the inputs to lower-level regions. Conflict between the two is resolved by changes in the higher-level representations, which are driven by the ensuing error in lower regions, until the mismatch is "cancelled". From this perspective the specialisation of any region is determined both by bottom-up driving inputs and by top-down predictions. Specialisation is therefore not an intrinsic property of any region but depends on both forward and backward connections with other areas. Because the latter have access to the context in which the inputs are generated they are in a position to modulate the selectivity or specialisation of lower areas. The implications for classical models (e.g., classical receptive fields in electrophysiology, classical specialisation in neuroimaging and connectionism in cognitive models) are severe and suggest these models may provide incomplete accounts of real brain architectures. Here we focus on the implications for cognitive neuroscience in the context of neuroimaging.
106	connectionism	1999	Alexander, JA; Mozer, MC	Template-based procedures for neural network interpretation	NEURAL NETWORKS	Although neural networks often achieve impressive learning and generalization performance, their internal workings are typically all but impossible to decipher. This characteristic of the networks, their opacity, is one of the disadvantages of connectionism compared to more traditional, rule-oriented approaches to artificial intelligence. Without a thorough understanding of the network behavior, confidence in a system's results is lowered, and the transfer of learned knowledge to other processing systems - including humans - is precluded. Methods that address the opacity problem by casting network weights in symbolic terms are commonly referred to as rule extraction techniques. This work describes a principled approach to symbolic rule extraction from standard multilayer feedforward networks based on the notion of weight templates, parameterized regions of weight space corresponding to specific symbolic expressions. With an appropriate choice of representation, we show how template parameters may be efficiently identified and instantiated to yield the optimal match to the actual weights of a unit. Depending on the requirements of the application domain. the approach can accommodate n-ary disjunctions and conjunctions with O(k) complexity, simple n-of-m expressions with O(k(2)) complexity, or more general classes of recursive n-of-m expressions with O(k(L+2)) complexity, where ii is the number of inputs to an unit and L the recursion level of the expression class. Compared to other approaches in the literature, our method of rule extraction offers benefits in simplicity, computational performance, and overall flexibility. Simulation results on a variety of problems demonstrate the application of our procedures as well as the strengths and the weaknesses of our general approach. (C) 1999 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
107	connectionism	1997	Brown, GDA	Connectionism, phonology, reading, and regularity in developmental dyslexia	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	Tests of the ''phonological deficit'' account of developmental dyslexia have produced apparently inconsistent results. We show how a connectionist approach to dyslexic reading development can resolve the paradox. A ''dyslexic'' model of reading was created by reducing the quality of the phonological representations available to the model during learning. The model behaved similarly to dyslexic children in that it had a selectively reduced ability to process nonwords, but showed normal effects of words' spelling-to-sound regularity. An experimental test of the model's predictions confirmed that dyslexic children perform similarly, in that they are impaired on irregular words to the same extent as nondyslexic children. It is concluded that developmentally dyslexic reading can indeed be understood in terms of impaired phonological representations and that the adoption of a modeling approach resolves an apparent paradox in the experimental literature. (C) 1997 Academic Press.
108	connectionism	1997	Roelofs, A	A case for nondecomposition in conceptually driven word retrieval	JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLINGUISTIC RESEARCH	Theories of lexical access in language use of a productive nature such as speaking, writing and verbal thinking differ in whether they assume that words are retrieved from memory in a conceptually decomposed or nondecomposed manner. Decomposition has been the received view for centuries, while nondecomposition is mostly not taken very seriously-undeservedly so, as I demonstrate in this paper. I review several theoretical objections that have traditionally been raised against nondecomposition and indicate how a nondecompositional approach can cope with them. Furthermore, several theoretical arguments in favor of nondecomposition are given. The issues concern the componential analysis of word meanings, the conceptual primitives, word definitions, the acquisition of word meaning, the conceptual dissection of messages, context dependence of word meaning, decomposition for syntactic encoding, word-to-phrase synonymy, hyperonymy, hyponymy, and the locus of decomposition. In addition, the major computational models of conceptually driven word retrieval proposed during the last few decades are evaluated both informally and by computer simulation. The decompositional models are shown to fail, whereas a specific nondecompositional model is shown to account for the difficulties. It is concluded that there are no evidential grounds for rejecting nondecomposition. On the contrary, for a theory of word retrieval there are, instead, good reasons to prefer nondecomposition to decomposition. Nondecomposition should be given more serious consideration in future work in the field.
109	connectionism	1995	COOPER, R; SHALLICE, T	SOAR AND THE CASE FOR UNIFIED THEORIES OF COGNITION	COGNITION	Despite the potential importance to cognitive psychology of unified theories no attempt has been made to assess concretely the methodological problems that such theorising produces. This paper addresses this issue of unified theorising, and in particular the arguments for unified theories put forward by Newell (1990). Close examination of these arguments reveals that Newell's approach does not adequately counter the difficulties which beset the grand theories of the 1930s, nor the problems of irrelevant specification which arise in modern computational psychological work. These difficulties do not prevent the development of unified theories, but they do pose serious problems, problems which it is argued can only be met by rigorous empirical testing together with extreme methodological sensitivity. The methodological concerns lead us to examine Soar, perhaps the most well-developed unified theory, from methodological, computational, and empirical perspectives. Our conclusions are that, whilst Soar represents an impressive body of research, its methodological foundations are insecure, it is ill specified as a computational/psychological theory, and under empirical testing it does not stand up to close scrutiny as a unified theory. The Soar research programme as it currently stands thus fails to meet the necessary methodological demands imposed by unified theorising.
110	connectionism	1991	KIRSH, D	FOUNDATIONS OF AI - THE BIG ISSUES	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The objective of research in the foundations of AI is to explore such basic questions as:  What is a theory in AI?  What are the most abstract assumptions underlying the competing visions of intelligence?  What are the basic arguments for and against each assumption?  In this essay I discuss five foundational issues:  (1) Core AI is the study of conceptualization and should begin with knowledge level theories.  (2) Cognition can be studied as a disembodied process without solving the symbol grounding problem.  (3) Cognition is nicely described in propositional terms.  (4) We can study cognition separately from learning.  (5) There is a single architecture underlying virtually all cognition.  I explain what each of these implies and present arguments from both outside and inside AI why each has been seen as right or wrong.
111	connectionism	2001	Beland, R; Mimouni, Z	Deep dyslexia in the two languages of an Arabic/French bilingual patient	COGNITION	We present a single case study of an Arabic/French bilingual patient, ZT, who, at the age of 32, suffered a cerebral vascular accident that resulted in a massive infarct in the left perisylvian region. ZT's reading displays the characteristics of the deep dyslexia syndrome in both languages, that is, production of semantic, visual, and morphological errors, and concreteness effect in reading aloud and impossibility of reading nonwords. In the first part of this paper, using a three-route model of reading, we account for the patient's performance by positing functional lesions, which affect the non-lexical, the semantic lexical and the non-semantic lexical routes of reading. Phonological priming observed in a cross-language visual lexical decision task indicates that implicit assembled phonological recoding is possible. The above lesions and implicit nonword reading characterize the output form of deep dyslexia. However, error distribution reveals dissociations across languages (e.g. the semantic error rate is higher in French whereas translations are more frequent in the Arabic testing) that cannot be accounted for within a three-route model. In the second part, extensions to Plant and Shallice's connectionist model (Cognitive Neuropsychology, 10 (5) (1993) 377) are proposed to account for the translinguistic errors observed. ZT's error distribution is compared to that obtained by Plant and Shallice after lesions had been applied at different locations through the 40-60 network. The overall syndrome of deep dyslexia found in both languages is explained as resulting from lesions along the direct (O --> I) and output (S --> Ip, Ip --> P) pathways of reading. Lesions along the output pathway mostly affecting S --> Ip connections in French and Ip --> P connections in Arabic account for discrepancies in ZT's error pattern across tasks and languages. This case study demonstrates the superiority of a connectionist approach for predicting the error pattern in deep dyslexia. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
112	connectionism	1998	Dean, J	Animats and what they can tell us	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Animats - autonomous robots or simulations of animals - and the animat approach represent the most recent attempt to comprehend the capacity of animals for autonomous generation of adaptive, intelligent behavior in complex, Changing environments. Motivated by perceived limitations in classical artificial intelligence (Al), the animat approach promulgates an alternative, bottom-up route to understanding intelligent behavior. Important tenets include: (1) that adaptive behavior is best understood by focusing on the interaction between a behaving individual and its environment, hence the interest in 'embodied' physical robots 'situated' in natural environments; (2) that specific abilities, 'behaviors', are more natural units of analysis and design than general, information-processing functions and world models; and (3) that high-level behaviors will emerge as systems composed of simple behavioral competences become more complex. Thus, animat research often begins with low-level sensorimotor abilities and then moves up towards higher, cognitive :functions. Both in analysis and in design, the animat approach borrows heavily from ethology, psychology, neurobiology and evolutionary biology, as well as from connectionism, for Al and robotics researchers, understanding the mechanisms behind adaptive behavior is secondary to creating them, but natural scientists can hope for tools and concepts to aid understanding of biological systems.
113	connectionism	1994	BODEN, MA	PRECIS OF THE CREATIVE MIND - MYTHS AND MECHANISMS	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	What is creativity?  One new idea may be creative, whereas another is merely new:  What's the difference?  And how is creativity possible?  These questions about human creativity can be answered, at least in outline, using computational concepts.  There are two broad types of creativity, improbabilist and impossibilist. Improbabilist creativity involves (positively valued) novel combinations of familiar ideas.  A deeper type involves METCS:  the mapping, exploration, and transformation of conceptual spaces.  It is impossibilist, in that ideas may be generated which - with respect to the particular conceptual space concerned - could not have been generated before.  (They are made possible by some transformation of the space.)  The more clearly conceptual spaces can be defined, the better we can identify creative ideas.  Defining conceptual spaces is done by musicologist, literary critics, and historians of art and science.  Humanist studies, rich in intuitive subtleties, can be complemented by the comparative rigour of a computational approach.  Computational modelling can help to define a space, and to show how it may be mapped, explored, and transformed. Impossibilist creativity can be thought of in ''classical'' AI terms, whereas connectionism illuminates improbabilist creativity.  Most AI models of creativity can only explore spaces, not transform them, because they have no self-reflexive maps enabling them to change their own rules.  A few, however, can do so.  A scientific understanding of creativity does not destroy our wonder at it, nor does it make creative ideas predictable.  Demystification does not imply dehumanization.
114	connectionism	2004	Johnson, K	On the systematicity of language and thought	JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHY	0
115	connectionism	1999	Marcus, GF	Connectionism: with or without rules? Response to J.L. McClelland and D.C. Plaut (1999)	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	0
116	connectionism	1997	Edelman, S; DuvdevaniBar, S	Similarity, connectionism, and the problem of representation in vision	NEURAL COMPUTATION	A representational scheme under which the ranking between represented similarities is isomorphic to the ranking between the corresponding shape similarities can support perfectly correct shape classification because it preserves the clustering of shapes according to the natural kinds prevailing in the external world. This article discusses the computational requirements of representation that preserves similarity ranks and points out the relative straightforwardness of its connectionist implementation.
117	connectionism	1993	BARNES, D; HAMPSON, PJ	STIMULUS EQUIVALENCE AND CONNECTIONISM - IMPLICATIONS FOR BEHAVIOR ANALYSIS AND COGNITIVE SCIENCE	PSYCHOLOGICAL RECORD	Recent developments in behavior analysis and cognitive science can be used to improve the uneasy relationship between these two approaches to psychological inquiry. Stimulus equivalence phenomena demonstrate the power of behavior analytic procedures to induce complex generative performances that are typically studied by cognitive scientists, while connectionism challenges the previously dominant symbol-based accounts of cognition and emphasizes the importance of environmental constraints and fundamental principles of learning as accounts of cognitive processing. The nature and possible contribution of stimulus equivalence to cognitive science are outlined, and connectionist simulations of complex equivalence phenomena are described. These simulations provide a possible rapprochement between behavior analysis and cognitive science.
118	connectionism	2008	Dale, R	The possibility of a pluralist cognitive science	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	A case for a pluralistic approach to cognitive science is sketched. It is argued that cognitive scientists should take seriously the possibility that a single, unified framework for all of cognition is an unrealistic expectation for its diverse interdisciplinary goals and subject matter. A pluralistic approach instead seeks ways of integrating the multiple perspectives that have provided explanatory success in loosely interconnected sub-domains of cognitive phenomena. Research strategies recommended by this approach are discussed, with review of research currently carrying out such strategies and others that may hold promise for the future. The article ends with a discussion of seeking closer integration of the inquirer into consideration of which explanatory framework to choose. A systematic exploration of this transactional approach to cognitive science may grant coherence to pluralism even as it embraces diverse schemes of explanation.
119	connectionism	2004	Coltheart, M	Brain imaging, connectionism, and cognitive neuropsychology	COGNITIVE NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	0
120	connectionism	2002	van Rooij, I; Bongers, RM; Haselager, WFG	A non-representational approach to imagined action	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This study addresses the dynamical nature of a "representation-hungry" cognitive task involving an imagined action. In our experiment, participants were handed rods that systematically increased or decreased in length on subsequent trials. Participants were asked to judge whether or not they thought they could reach for a distant object with the hand-held rod. The results are in agreement with a dynamical model, extended from Tuller, Case, Ding, and Kelso (1994). The dynamical effects observed in this study suggest that predictive judgments regarding the possibility or impossibility of a certain action can be understood in terms of dynamically evolving basins of attraction instead of as depending on representational structures. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
121	connectionism	2010	Herrero, A; Corchado, E; Saiz, L; Abraham, A	DIPKIP: A CONNECTIONIST KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM TO IDENTIFY KNOWLEDGE DEFICITS IN PRACTICAL CASES	COMPUTATIONAL INTELLIGENCE	This study presents a novel, multidisciplinary research project entitled DIPKIP (data acquisition, intelligent processing, knowledge identification and proposal), which is a Knowledge Management (KM) system that profiles the KM status of a company. Qualitative data is fed into the system that allows it not only to assess the KM situation in the company in a straightforward and intuitive manner, but also to propose corrective actions to improve that situation. DIPKIP is based on four separate steps. An initial "Data Acquisition" step, in which key data is captured, is followed by an "Intelligent Processing" step, using neural projection architectures. Subsequently, the "Knowledge Identification" step catalogues the company into three categories, which define a set of possible theoretical strategic knowledge situations: knowledge deficit, partial knowledge deficit, and no knowledge deficit. Finally, a "Proposal" step is performed, in which the "knowledge processes"-creation/acquisition, transference/distribution, and putting into practice/updating-are appraised to arrive at a coherent recommendation. The knowledge updating process (increasing the knowledge held and removing obsolete knowledge) is in itself a novel contribution. DIPKIP may be applied as a decision support system, which, under the supervision of a KM expert, can provide useful and practical proposals to senior management for the improvement of KM, leading to flexibility, cost savings, and greater competitiveness. The research also analyses the future for powerful neural projection models in the emerging field of KM by reviewing a variety of robust unsupervised projection architectures, all of which are used to visualize the intrinsic structure of high-dimensional data sets. The main projection architecture in this research, known as Cooperative Maximum-Likelihood Hebbian Learning (CMLHL), manages to capture a degree of KM topological ordering based on the application of cooperative lateral connections. The results of two real-life case studies in very different industrial sectors corroborated the relevance and viability of the DIPKIP system and the concepts upon which it is founded.
122	connectionism	2005	Fiori, S	Nonlinear complex-valued extensions of Hebbian learning: An essay	NEURAL COMPUTATION	The Hebbian paradigm is perhaps the best-known unsupervised learning theory in connectionism. It has inspired wide research activity in the artificial neural network field because it embodies some interesting properties such as locality and the capability of being applicable to the basic weight-and-surn structure of neuron models. The plain Hebbian principle, however, also presents some inherent theoretical limitations that make it impractical in most cases. Therefore, modifications of the basic Hebbian learning paradigm have been proposed over the past 20 years in order to design profitable signal and data processing algorithms. Such modifications led to the principal component analysis type class of learning rules along with their nonlinear extensions. The aim of this review is primarily to present part of the existing fragmented material in the field of principal component learning within a unified view and contextually to motivate and present extensions of previous works on Hebbian learning to complex-weighted linear neural networks. This work benefits from previous studies on linear signal decomposition by artificial neural networks, nonquadratic component optimization and reconstruction error definition, neural parameters adaptation by constrained optimization of learning criteria of complex-valued arguments, and orthonormality expression via the insertion of topological elements in the networks or by modifying the network learning criterion. In particular, the learning principles considered here and their analysis concern complex-valued principal/minor component/subspace linear/nonlinear rules for complex-weighted neural structures, both feedforward and laterally connected.
123	connectionism	2001	Berent, I; Shimron, J; Vaknin, V	Phonological constraints on reading: Evidence from the obligatory contour principle	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	Hebrew frequently manifests gemination in its roots, but strictly constrains its position: Root-final gemination is extremely frequent (e.g.. bbd), whereas root-initial gemination is rare (e.g., bdd). This asymmetry is explained by a universal constraint on phonological representations. the Obligatory Contour Principle (McCarthy. 1986). Three experiments examined whether this phonological constraint affects performance in a lexical decision task. The rejection of nonwords generated from novel roots with root-initial gemination (e.g.. Ki-KuS) was significantly faster than roots with final gemination controls (e.g.. Si-KuK). The emergence of this asymmetry regardless of the position of geminates in the word implicates a constraint on root, rather than simply word structure, Our results further indicate that speakers are sensitive to the structure of geminate bigrams, i.e.. their identity. Nonwords formed from roots with Anal gemination (e.g.. Si-KuK) were significantly more difficult to reject than foils generated from frequency-matched no gemination controls (e.g., Ni-KuS). Speakers are thus sensitive to the identity of geminates and constrain their location in the root. These findings suggest that the representations assembled in reading a deep orthography are structured linguistic entities, constrained by phonological competence. (C) 2001 Academic Press.
124	connectionism	1997	Parisi, D	An artificial life approach to language	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	The aim of the paper is to show that an Artificial Life approach to language tends to change the research agenda on language which has been shared by both the symbolic paradigm and classical connectionism. Artificial Life Neural Networks (ALNNs) are different from classical connectionist networks because they interact with an independent physical environment; are subject to evolutionary, developmental, and cultural change, and not only to learning; and are parr of organisms that have a physical body, have a life (are born, develop, and die), and are members of genetic and, sometimes, cultural populations. Using ALNNs to study language shifts the emphasis from research on linguistic forms and laboratory-like tasks to the investigation of the emergence and transmission of language, the use of language, its role in cognition, and language as a populational rather than as an individual phenomenon. (C) 1997 Academic Press.
125	connectionism	1994	BECHTEL, W	LEVELS OF DESCRIPTION AND EXPLANATION IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	MINDS AND MACHINES	The notion of levels has been widely used in discussions of cognitive science, especially in discussions of the relation of connectionism to symbolic modeling of cognition. I argue that many of the notions of levels employed are problematic for this purpose, and develop an alternative notion grounded in the framework of mechanistic explanation. By considering the source of the analogies underlying both symbolic modeling and connectionist modeling, I argue that neither is likely to provide an adequate analysis of processes at the level at which cognitive theories attempt to function: One is drawn from too low a level, the other from too high a level. If there is a distinctly cognitive level, then we still need to determine what are the basic organizational principles at that level.
126	connectionism	1992	HALPERIN, JRP; DUNHAM, DW; YE, S	SOCIAL-ISOLATION INCREASES SOCIAL DISPLAY AFTER PRIMING IN BETTA-SPLENDENS BUT DECREASES AGGRESSIVE READINESS	BEHAVIOURAL PROCESSES	We socially isolated adult, male Siamese fighting fish for 0 to 7 weeks but avoided sensory deprivation, and then measured aggressive display as the fish responded to a series of novel models. Isolates displayed much more strongly than non-isolates to the last model of the series, and display intensity became monotonically stronger with longer social isolation. By contrast, display to the first model seen after isolation was weaker the longer the social isolation. A second experiment compared responses of fish after three weeks during which controls displayed to a conspecific for two minutes every two days, while isolates saw a complex visual stimulus which did not release display. Again, isolates had depressed display readiness, but higher display rates once they were primed. This result supports the hypothesis that social isolation has two effects on aggressive display in Betta, causing decreasing readiness to display, but leading to greater display rates once fish are 'primed'. We discuss two models which predict these phenomena, and show that one of them suggests a new understanding of the function of motivational increases when aggression is 'dammed up'. Methodological issues relevant for examining the rodent behavior literature in the light of the new model are discussed.
127	connectionism	1992	MILLAN, JDR; TORRAS, C	A REINFORCEMENT CONNECTIONIST APPROACH TO ROBOT PATH FINDING IN NON-MAZE-LIKE ENVIRONMENTS	MACHINE LEARNING	This paper presents a reinforcement connectionist system which finds and learns the suitable situation-action rules so as to generate feasible paths for a point robot in a 2D environment with circular obstacles. The basic reinforcement algorithm is extended with a strategy for discovering stable solution paths. Equipped with this strategy and a powerful codification scheme, the path-finder (i) learns quickly, (ii) deals with continuous-valued inputs and outputs, (iii) exhibits good noise-tolerance and generalization capabilities, (iv) copes with dynamic environments, and (v) solves an instance of the path finding problem with strong performance demands.
128	connectionism	2007	Mareschal, D; Thomas, MSC	Computational modeling in developmental psychology	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION	This manuscript surveys computational modeling efforts by researchers in developmental psychology. Developmental psychology is ready to blossom into a modern science that focuses on causal mechanistic explanations of development rather than just describing and classifying behaviors. Computational modeling is the key to this process. However, to be effective, models must not only mimic observed data. They must also be transparent, grounded, and plausible to be accepted by the developmental psychology community. Connectionist model provides one such example. Many developmental features of typical and atypical perception, cognition, and language have been modeled using connectionist methods. Successful models are closely tied to the details of existing empirical studies and make concrete testable predictions. The success of such a project relies on the close collaboration of computational scientists with empirical psychologists.
129	connectionism	2000	Laakso, A; Cottrell, G	Content and cluster analysis: assessing representational similarity in neural systems	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	If connectionism is to be an adequate theory of mind, we must have a theory representation for neural networks that allows for individual differences in weighting and architecture while preserving sameness, or at least similarity, of content. In this paper we propose a procedure for measuring sameness of content of neural representations. We argue that the correct way to compare neural representations is through analysis of the distances between neural activations, and we present a method for doing so. We then use the technique to demonstrate empirically that different artificial neural networks trained by backpropagation on the same categorization task, even with different representational encodings of the input patterns and different numbers of hidden units, reach states in which representations at the hidden units are similar. We discuss how this work provides a rebuttal to Fodor and Lepore's critique of Paul Churchland's state space semantics.
130	connectionism	1997	Hampton, JA	Associative and similarity-based processes in categorization decisions	MEMORY & COGNITION	Two experiments were directed at distinguishing associative and similarity-based accounts of systematic differences in categorization time for different items in natural categories. Experiment I investigated the correlation of categorization time with three measures of instance centrality in a category. Production frequency (PF), rated typicality, and familiarity from category norms for British participants (Hampton & Gardiner, 1983) were used to predict mean categorization times for 531 words in 12 semantic categories. PF and typicality (but not familiarity) were found to make significant and independent contributions to categorization time. Error rates were related only to typicality (apart from errors made to ambiguous or unknown items). Experiment 2 provided a further dissociation of PF and typicality. Manipulating the difficulty of the task through the relatedness of the false items interacted primarily with the effect of typicality on categorization time, whereas, under conditions of easy discrimination, prior exposure to the category exemplars affected only the contribution of PF to the decision time. The dissociation of typicality and PF measures is interpreted as providing evidence that speeded categorization involves both retrieval of associations indexed by PF and a similarity-based decision process indexed by typicality.
131	connectionism	1993	CHALMERS, DJ	CONNECTIONISM AND COMPOSITIONALITY - WHY FODOR AND PYLYSHYN WERE WRONG	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper offers a theoretical and an experimental perspective on the relationship between connectionist and classical (symbol-processing) models. A structural flaw in Fodor and Pylyshyn's argument against connectionism is pointed out. if, in fact, a part of their argument is valid, then it establishes a conclusion quire different from that which they intend, a conclusion which is demonstrably false. The source of this flaw is traced to an underestimation of the differences between localist and distributed representation. Fodor and McLaughlin have claimed that distributed representations cannot support systematic operations, or that if they can, then they will be mere implementations of traditional ideas. This paper presents experimental evidence against this conclusion: distributed representations can be used to support direct structure-sensitive operations, in a manner quite unlike the classical approach. Finally, it is argued that even if Fodor and Pylyshyn's argument that connectionist models of compositionality must be mere implementations were correct, this would still not be a serious argument against connectionism as a theory of mind.
132	connectionism	2003	Smith, LB; Samuelson, LK	Different is good: connectionism and dynamic systems theory are complementary emergentist approaches to development	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	Connectionist and dynamic systems approaches to development are similar in that they are both emergentist theories that take a very different perspective from more traditional symbolic systems. Moreover, they are both based on similar mathematical principles. Nevertheless, connectionism and dynamic systems differ in the approach they take to the study of development. We argue that differences between connectionist and dynamic systems approaches in terms of the basic components of the models, what they see as the object of study, how they view the nature of knowledge and their notions of developmental change mean that they each stand to make different and unique contributions to a more complete theory of development. We present an example from our work on how children learn to learn words that illustrates the complementary nature of connectionist and dynamic systems theories.
133	connectionism	1996	Feldman, J; Lakoff, G; Bailey, D; Narayanan, S; Regier, T; Stolcke, A	L(0) - The first five years of an automated language acquisition project	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE REVIEW	The L(0) project at ICSI and UC Berkeley attempts to combine not only vision and natural language modelling, but also learning. The original task was put forward in (Feldman et al. 1990a) as a touchstone task for AI and cognitive science. The task is to build a system that can learn the appropriate fragment of any natural language from sentence-picture pairs. We have not succeeded in building such a system, but we have made considerable progress on component subtasks and this has led in a number of productive and surprising directions.
134	connectionism	1993	MCLAUGHLIN, BP	THE CONNECTIONISM/CLASSICISM BATTLE TO WIN SOULS	PHILOSOPHICAL STUDIES	0
135	connectionism	2009	McLaughlin, BP	Systematicity redux	SYNTHESE	One of the main challenges that Jerry Fodor and Zenon Pylyshyn (Cognition 28: 3-71, 1988) posed for any connectionist theory of cognitive architecture is to explain the systematicity of thought without implementing a Language of Thought (LOT) architecture. The systematicity challenge presents a dilemma: if connectionism cannot explain the systematicity of thought, then it fails to offer an adequate theory of cognitive architecture; and if it explains the systematicity of thought by implementing a LOT architecture, then it fails to offer an alternative to the LOT hypothesis. Given that thought is systematic, connectionism can offer an adequate alternative to the LOT hypothesis only if it can meet the challenge. Although some critics tried to meet the challenge, others argued that it need not be met since thought is not in fact systematic; and some claimed not to even understand the claim that thought is systematic. I do not here examine attempts to answer the challenge. Instead, I defend the challenge itself by explicating the notion of systematicity in a way that I hope makes clear that thought is indeed systematic, and so that to offer an adequate alternative to the LOT hypothesis, connectionism must meet the challenge.
136	connectionism	2003	Sturt, P; Costa, F; Lombardo, V; Frasconi, P	Learning first-pass structural attachment preferences with dynamic grammars and recursive neural networks	COGNITION	One of the central problems in the study of human language processing is ambiguity resolution: how do people resolve the extremely pervasive ambiguity of the language they encounter? One possible answer to this question is suggested by experience-based models, which claim that people typically resolve ambiguities in a way which has been successful in the past. In order to determine the course of action that has been "successful in the past" when faced with some ambiguity, it is necessary to generalize over past experience. In this paper, we will present a computational experience-based model, which learns to generalize over linguistic experience from exposure to syntactic structures in a corpus. The model is a hybrid system, which uses symbolic grammars to build and represent syntactic structures, and neural networks to rank these structures on the basis of its experience. We use a dynamic grammar, which provides a very tight correspondence between grammatical derivations and incremental processing, and recursive neural networks, which are able to deal with the complex hierarchical structures produced by the grammar. We demonstrate that the model reproduces a number of the structural preferences found in the experimental psycho-linguistics literature, and also performs well on unrestricted text. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
137	connectionism	2001	Frixione, M	Tractable competence	MINDS AND MACHINES	In the study of cognitive processes, limitations on computational resources (computing time and memory space) are usually considered to be beyond the scope of a theory of competence, and to be exclusively relevant to the study of performance. Starting from considerations derived from the theory of computational complexity, in this paper I argue that there are good reasons for claiming that some aspects of resource limitations pertain to the domain of a theory of competence.
138	connectionism	2000	Roy, A	On connectionism, rule extraction, and brain-like learning	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON FUZZY SYSTEMS	There is a growing body of work that shows that both fuzzy and symbolic rule systems can be implemented using neural networks. This body of work also shows that these fuzzy and symbolic rules can be retrieved from these networks, once they have been learned by procedures that generally fall under the category of rule extraction. The paper argues that the idea of rule extraction front a neural network involves certain procedures, specifically the reading of parameters from a network, that are not allowed by the connectionist framework that these neural networks are based on. It argues that such rule extraction procedures imply a greater freedom and latitude about the internal mechanisms of the brain than is permitted by connectionism, but that such latitude is permitted by the recently proposed control theoretic paradigm for the brain. The control theoretic paradigm basically suggests that there are parts of the brain that control other parts and has far less restrictions on the kind of procedures that can be called "brain like." The paper shows that this control theoretic paradigm is supported by new evidence from neuroscience about the role of neuromodulators rind neurotransmitters in the brain. In addition, it shows that the control theoretic paradigm is also used in connectionist algorithms, although never acknowledged explicitly, The paper suggests that far better learning and rule extraction algorithms can be developed using these control theoretic notions and they would be consistent with the more recent understanding of how the brain works and learns.
139	connectionism	1997	Fodor, J	Connectionism and the problem of systematicity (continued): Why Smolensky's solution still doesn't work	COGNITION	Paul Smolensky has recently announced that the problem of explaining the compositionality of concepts within a connectionist framework is solved in principle. Mental representations are vectors over the activity states of connectionist ''units'', but the vectors encode Classical trees, whose structural properties in turn ''acausally'' explain the facts of compositionality. This sounds suspiciously like the offer of a free lunch, and it turns out, upon examination, that there is nothing to it.
140	connectionism	1994	HORGAN, T; TIENSON, J	A NONCLASSICAL FRAMEWORK FOR COGNITIVE SCIENCE	SYNTHESE	David Marr provided a useful framework for theorizing about cognition within classical, AI-style cognitive science, in terms of three levels of description:  the levels of (i) cognitive function, (ii) algorithm and (iii) physical implementation.  We generalize this framework:  (i) cognitive state transitions, (ii) mathematical/functional design and (iii) physical implementation or realization.  Specifying the middle, design level to be the theory of dynamical systems yields a nonclassical, alternative framework that suits (but is not committed to) connectionism.  We consider how a brain's (or a network's) being a dynamical system might be the key both to its realizing various essential features of cognition - productivity, systematicity, structure-sensitive processing, syntax - and also to a non-classical solution of (frame-type) problems plaguing classical cognitive science.
141	connectionism	2006	Perez, M	Artificial neural networks and bankruptcy forecasting: a state of the art	NEURAL COMPUTING & APPLICATIONS	The use of neural networks in finance began by the end of the 1980s and by the beginning of the 1990s, it developed specific applications related to forecasting on the failure of companies. In order to highlight the evolution of this research stream, we have retained and analysed 30 studies in which the authors use neural networks to solve companies' classification problems (healthy and failing firms). This review of all these works gives us the opportunity to stress upon future trends in bankruptcy forecasting research.
142	connectionism	2005	Bechtel, W	The challenge of characterizing operations in the mechanisms underlying behavior	JOURNAL OF THE EXPERIMENTAL ANALYSIS OF BEHAVIOR	Neuroscience and cognitive science seek to explain behavioral regularities in terms of underlying mechanisms. An important element of a mechanistic explanation is a characterization of the operations of the parts of the mechanism. The challenge in characterizing such operations is illustrated by an example from the history of physiological chemistry in which sonic investigators tried to characterize the internal operations in the same terms as the overall physiological system while others appealed to elemental chemistry. In order for biochemistry to become successful, researchers had to identify a new level of operations involving operations over molecular groups. Existing attempts at mechanistic explanation of behavior are in a situation comparable to earlier approaches to physiological chemistry, drawing their inspiration either from overall psychology activities or from low-level neural processes. Successful mechanistic explanations of behavior require the discovery of the appropriate component operations. Such discovery is a daunting challenge but one on which success will be beneficial to both behavioral scientists and cognitive and neuroscientists.
143	connectionism	2005	Braber, N; Patterson, K; Ellis, K; Ralph, MAL	The relationship between phonological and morphological deficits in Broca's aphasia: Further evidence from errors in verb inflection	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	A previous study of 10 patients with Broca's aphasia demonstrated that the advantage for producing the past tense of irregular over regular verbs exhibited by these patients was eliminated when the two sets of past-tense forms were matched for phonological complexity (Bird, Lambon Ralph, Seidenberg, McClelland, & Patterson, 2003). The interpretation given was that a generalised phonological impairment was central to the patients' language deficits, including their poor performance on regular past tense verbs. The current paper provides further evidence in favour of this hypothesis, on the basis of a detailed analysis of the errors produced by these same 10 patients in reading, repetition, and sentence completion for a large number of regular, irregular, and nonce verbs. The patients' predominant error types in all tasks and for all verb types were close and distant phonologically related responses. The balance between close and distant errors varied along three continua: the severity of the patient (more distant errors produced by the more severely impaired patients); the difficulty of the task (more distant errors in sentence completion > reading > repetition); the difficulty of the item (more distant errors for novel word forms than real verbs). A position analysis for these phonologically related errors revealed that vowels were most likely to be preserved and that consonant onsets and offsets were equally likely to be incorrect. Critically, the patients' errors exhibited a strong tendency to simplify the phonological form of the target. These results are consistent with the notion that the patients' relatively greater difficulty with regular past tenses reflects a phonological impairment that is sensitive to the complexity of spoken forms. (c) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
144	connectionism	2005	Dennis, S	A memory-based theory of verbal cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The syntagmatic paradigmatic model is a distributed, memory-based account of verbal processing. Built on a Bayesian interpretation of string edit theory, it characterizes the control of verbal cognition as the retrieval of sets of syntagmatic and paradigmatic constraints from sequential and relational long-term memory and the resolution of these constraints in working memory. Lexical information is extracted directly from text using a version of the expectation maximization algorithm. In this article, the model is described and then illustrated on a number of phenomena, including sentence processing, semantic categorization and rating, short-term serial recall, and analogical and logical inference. Subsequently, the model is used to answer questions about a corpus of tennis news articles taken from the Internet. The model's success demonstrates that it is possible to extract propositional information from naturally occurring text without employing a grammar, defining a set of heuristics, or specifying a priori a set of semantic roles.
145	connectionism	2003	Elman, J	Development: it's about time	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	Traditionally, research has been defined as being about development if it focuses on behaviors that occur during development, without reference either to what precedes or follows, or - more importantly - the mechanisms that drive change. This perspective has been challenged by two new approaches: dynamical systems, and connectionism, both of which have as core goals the explanation of change. Interestingly, these approaches have also been seen by many as being at odds with one another, for reasons that are in part valid, and in part superficial. Recent developments in both approaches suggest that a convergence is occurring, although much remains to be done before a true. unification can take place.
146	connectionism	1996	Copeland, BJ; Proudfoot, D	On Alan Turing's anticipation of connectionism	SYNTHESE	It is not widely realised that Turing was probably the first person to consider building computing machines out of simple, neuron-like elements connected together into networks in a largely random manner. Turing called his networks 'unorganised machines'. By the application of what he described as 'appropriate interference, mimicking education' an unorganised machine can be trained to perform any task that a Turing machine can carry out, provided the number of 'neurons' is sufficient. Turing proposed simulating both the behaviour of the network and the training process by means of a computer program. We outline Turing's connectionist project of 1948.
147	connectionism	2006	Van Overwalle, F; Heylighen, F	Talking nets: A multiagent connectionist approach to communication and trust between individuals	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A multiagent connectionist model is proposed that consists of a collection of individual recurrent networks that communicate with each other and, as such, is a network of networks. The individual recurrent networks simulate the process of information uptake, integration, and memorization within individual agents, and the communication of beliefs and opinions between agents is propagated along connections between the individual networks. A crucial aspect in belief updating based on information from other agents is the trust in the information provided. In the model, trust is determined by the consistency with the receiving agents' existing beliefs and results in changes of the connections between individual networks, called trust weights. These weights lead to a selective propagation and thus to the filtering out of less reliable information, and they implement H. P. Grice's (1975) maxims of quality and quantity in communication. The unique contribution of communicative mechanisms beyond intrapersonal processing of individual networks was explored in simulations of key phenomena involving persuasive communication and polarization, lexical acquisition, spreading of stereotypes and rumors, and a lack of sharing unique information in group decisions.
148	connectionism	2003	Eliasmith, C	Moving beyond metaphors: Understanding the mind for what it is	JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHY	0
149	connectionism	2000	Morris, WC; Cottrell, GW; Elman, J	A connectionist simulation of the empirical acquisition of grammatical relations	HYBRID NEURAL SYSTEMS	This paper proposes an account of the acquisition of grammatical relations using the basic concepts of connectionism and a construction-based theory of grammar. Many previous accounts of first-language acquisition assume that grammatical relations (e.g., the grammatical subject and object of a sentence) and linking rules are universal and innate; this is necessary to provide a first set of assumptions in the target language to allow deductive processes to test hypotheses and/or set parameters. In contrast to this approach, we propose that grammatical relations emerge rather late in the language-learning process. Our theoretical proposal is based on two observations. First, early production of childhood speech is formulaic and becomes systematic in a progressive fashion. Second, grammatical relations themselves are family-resemblance categories that cannot be described by a single parameter. This leads to the notion that grammatical relations are learned in a bottom up fashion. Combining this theoretical position with the notion that the main purpose of language is communication, we demonstrate the emergence of the notion of "subject" in a simple recurrent network that learns to map from sentences to semantic roles. We analyze the hidden layer representations of the emergent subject, and demonstrate that these representations correspond to a radially-structured category. We also claim that the pattern of generalization and undergeneralization demonstrated by the network conforms to what we expect from the data on children's generalizations.
150	connectionism	1994	CULLINAN, VA; BARNES, D; HAMPSON, PJ; LYDDY, F	A TRANSFER OF EXPLICITLY AND NONEXPLICITLY TRAINED SEQUENCE RESPONSE THROUGH EQUIVALENCE-RELATIONS - AN EXPERIMENTAL DEMONSTRATION AND CONNECTIONIST MODEL	PSYCHOLOGICAL RECORD	Eight college students were trained in a sequential response to two nonsense syllable pairs B1-B2 and B2-B3.  They were then tested to determine whether an untrained, novel three-response sequence emerged as a result of the spontaneous combination of the two explicitly trained two-response sequences (i.e., B1-B2 + B2-B3 becomes B1-B2-B3).  All subjects demonstrated this three-response sequence performance.  Four experimental subjects were then trained in a set of conditional discriminations, using a matching-to-sample procedure (i.e., A1-B1, A1-C1, A2-B2, A2-C2, A3-B3, A3-C3).  All four subsequently displayed the formation of three equivalence relations in nonreinforced testing (i.e., A1-B1-C1, A2-B2-C2, A3-B3-C3).  This was followd by testing for a transfer, through equivalence, of the sequential responses, for both nonsense syllable pairs and triples.  All experimental subjects showed this transfer (i.e., C1-C2, C2-C3, and C1-C2-C3).  The control subjects, however, who had not received the conditional discrimination training and equivalence testing, all failed to show this transfer.  A connectionist model was then designed to simulate the obtained data.  After suitable explicit training on up to four stimulus sets, the model was capable of correctly responding to the sequence, equivalence, and transfer tests, after exposure to only the training stages of a fifth set.  The wider implications of connectionism for behavior analysis are also considered.
151	connectionism	1999	Kennepohl, S	Toward a cultural neuropsychology: An alternative view and a preliminary model	BRAIN AND COGNITION	Any integrated theory of mind and behavior must address the dynamic interaction between neurobiological and sociocultural systems as possible causes for human action. Newer findings within the behavioral neurosciences have pointed to the brain's exceptional plasticity and flexibility and suggest that one's surroundings, including one's cultural environment, may directly influence the way the human nervous system becomes organized. In this paper, a preliminary connectionist model of culture-brain interaction is proposed in an effort to illustrate the possible contribution of cultural factors to the development of the individual human brain, (C) 1999 Academic Press.
152	connectionism	1998	Sougne, J	Connectionism and the problem of multiple instantiation	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Multiple instantiation is the ability to handle different instances of the same concept simultaneously. For example, from the following two facts: 'Pepin the Short was the son of Charles Martel' and 'Charlemagne was the son of Pepin the Short', one can infer that Charles Martel was the grandfather of Charlemagne. This inference requires two instantiations of 'Pepin the Short', the first in the role of the son, the second in the role of the father. For a connectionist model that does not use a working area receiving copies of items from a long-term knowledge base, the problem of multiple instantiation is a particularly thorny one. People are able to deal with multiple instances, unlike most connectionist models, but nonetheless their performance than doing so is reduced. On the other hand, there is no decrease in performance for symbolic models doing multiple instantiation. A good cognitive model should reflect both human competence and human limitations. This review proposes several connectionist solutions to the problem of multiple instantiation and examines their merits.
153	connectionism	2014	Rabovsky, M; McRae, K	Simulating the N400 ERP component as semantic network error: Insights from a feature-based connectionist attractor model of word meaning	COGNITION	The N400 ERP component is widely used in research on language and semantic memory. Although the component's relation to semantic processing is well-established, the computational mechanisms underlying N400 generation are currently unclear (Kutas & Federmeier, 2011). We explored the mechanisms underlying the N400 by examining how a connectionist model's performance measures covary with N400 amplitudes. We simulated seven N400 effects obtained in human empirical research. Network error was consistently in the same direction as N400 amplitudes, namely larger for low frequency words, larger for words with many features, larger for words with many orthographic neighbors, and smaller for semantically related target words as well as repeated words. Furthermore, the repetition-induced decrease was stronger for low frequency words, and for words with many semantic features. In contrast, semantic activation corresponded less well with the N400. Our results suggest an interesting relation between N400 amplitudes and semantic network error. In psychological terms, error values in connectionist models have been conceptualized as implicit prediction error, and we interpret our results as support for the idea that N400 amplitudes reflect implicit prediction error in semantic memory (McClelland, 1994). (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
154	connectionism	2013	Perry, C; Ziegler, JC; Zorzi, M	A Computational and Empirical Investigation of Graphemes in Reading	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	It is often assumed that graphemes are a crucial level of orthographic representation above letters. Current connectionist models of reading, however, do not address how the mapping from letters to graphemes is learned. One major challenge for computational modeling is therefore developing a model that learns this mapping and can assign the graphemes to linguistically meaningful categories such as the onset, vowel, and coda of a syllable. Here, we present a model that learns to do this in English for strings of any letter length and any number of syllables. The model is evaluated on error rates and further validated on the results of a behavioral experiment designed to examine ambiguities in the processing of graphemes. The results show that the model (a) chooses graphemes from letter strings with a high level of accuracy, even when trained on only a small portion of the English lexicon; (b) chooses a similar set of graphemes as people do in situations where different graphemes can potentially be selected; (c) predicts orthographic effects on segmentation which are found in human data; and (d) can be readily integrated into a full-blown model of multi-syllabic reading aloud such as CDP++ (Perry, Ziegler, & Zorzi, 2010). Altogether, these results suggest that the model provides a plausible hypothesis for the kind of computations that underlie the use of graphemes in skilled reading.
155	connectionism	2008	Chartier, S; Renaud, P; Boukadoum, M	A nonlinear dynamic artificial neural network model of memory	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Nonlinearity and dynamics in psychology are found in various domains such as neuroscience, cognitive science, human development, etc. However, the models that have been proposed are mostly of a computational nature and ignore dynamics. In those models that do include dynamic properties, only fixed points are used to store and retrieve information, leaving many principles of nonlinear dynamic systems (NDS) aside; for instance, chaos is often perceived as a nuisance. This paper considers a nonlinear dynamic artificial neural network (NDANN) that implements NDS principles while also complying with general neuroscience constraints. After a theoretical presentation, simulation results will show that the model can exhibit multi-valued, fixed-point, region-constrained attractors and aperiodic (including chaotic) behaviors. Because the capabilities of NDANN include the modeling of spatiotemporal chaotic activities, it may be an efficient tool to help bridge the gap between biological memory neural models and behavioral memory models. Crown Copyright (C) 2007 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
156	connectionism	2008	Piccinini, G	Some neural networks compute, others don't	NEURAL NETWORKS	I address whether neural networks perform computations in the sense Of Computability theory and computer science. I explicate and defend the following theses. (1) Many neural networks compute-they perform computations. (2) Some neural networks compute in a classical way. Ordinary digital computers, which are very large networks of logic gates, belong in this class of neural networks. (3) Other neural networks compute hi a non-classical way. (4) Yet other neural networks do not perform computations. Brains may well fall into this last class. (c) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
157	connectionism	2000	Buckingham, D; Shultz, TR	The Developmental Course of Distance, Time, and Velocity Concepts: A Generative Connectionist Model	JOURNAL OF COGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT	Connectionist simulations of children's acquisition of distance (d), time (t), and velocity (v) concepts using a generative algorithm-cascade-correlation-are reported. Rules that correlated most highly with network responses during training were consistent with the developmental course of children's concepts. Networks integrated the defining dimensions of the concepts first by identity rules (e. g., v = d), then additive rules (e. g., v = d-t), and finally multiplicative rules (e. g., v = d divided by t). The results are discussed in terms of similarity to children's development, the contribution of connectionism to the study of cognitive development, contrasts with alternative models, and directions for future research.
158	connectionism	1995	GU, Z; ZHANG, YF; NEE, AYC	GENERIC FORM FEATURE RECOGNITION AND OPERATION SELECTION USING CONNECTIONIST MODELING	JOURNAL OF INTELLIGENT MANUFACTURING	For the purpose of enhancing the adaptability of computer-aided process planning systems, two connectionist modelling methods, namely neocognitron (i.e. neural network modelling for pattern recognition) and fuzzy associative memories (FAM), are applied to the phases of feature recognition and operation selection respectively in order to provide the system with the ability of self-learning and the ability to integrate traditional expert planning systems with connectionism-based models. In this paper, the attributed adjacency graph (AAG) extracted from a (B-Rep) solid model is converted to attributed adjacency matrices (AAM) that can be used as input data for the neocognitron to train and recognize feature patterns. With this technique, the system can not only self-reconstruct its recognition abilities for new features by learning without a priori knowledge but can also recognize and decompose intersection features. A fuzzy connectionist model, which is created using the Hebbian fuzzy learning algorithm, is employed subsequently to map the features to the appropriate operations. As the algorithm is capable of learning from rules, it is much easier to integrate the proposed model with conventional expert CAPP systems so that they become more generic in dealing with uncertain information processing and perform knowledge updating.
159	connectionism	1995	HADLEY, RF	THE EXPLICIT-IMPLICIT DISTINCTION	MINDS AND MACHINES	Much of traditional AI exemplifies the ''explicit representation'' paradigm, and during the late 1980's a heated debate arose between the classical and connectionist camps as to whether beliefs and rules receive an explicit or implicit representation in human cognition. In a recent paper, Kirsh (1990) questions the coherence of the fundamental distinction underlying this debate. He argues that our basic intuitions concerning 'explicit' and 'implicit' representations are not only confused but inconsistent. Ultimately, Kirsh proposes a new formulation of the distinction, based upon the criterion of constant time processing. The present paper examines Kirsh's claims. It is argued that Kirsh fails to demonstrate that our usage of 'explicit' and 'implicit' is seriously confused or inconsistent. Furthermore, it is argued that Kirsh's new formulation of the explicit-implicit distinction is excessively stringent, in that it banishes virtually all sentences of natural language from the realm of explicit representation. By contrast, the present paper proposes definitions for 'explicit' and 'implicit' which preserve most of our strong intuitions concerning straightforward uses of these terms. It is also argued that the distinction delineated here sustains the meaningfulness of the abovementioned debate between classicists and connectionists.
160	connectionism	1995	LLOYD, D	CONSCIOUSNESS - A CONNECTIONIST MANIFESTO	MINDS AND MACHINES	Connectionism and phenomenology can mutually inform and mutually constrain each other. In this manifesto I outline an approach to consciousness based on distinctions developed by connectionists. Two core identities are central to a connectionist theory of consciousness: conscious states of mind are identical to occurrent activation patterns of processing units; and the variable dispositional strengths on connections between units store latent and unconscious information. Within this broad framework, a connectionist model of consciousness succeeds according to the degree of correspondence between the content of human consciousness (the world as it is experienced) and the interpreted content of the network. Constitutive self-awareness and reflective self-awareness can be captured in a model through its ability to respond to self-reflexive information, identify self-referential categories, and process information in the absence of simultaneous input. The qualitative ''feel'' of sensation appears in a model as states of activation that are not fully discriminated by later processing. Connectionism also uniquely explains several specific features of experience. The most important of these is the superposition of information in consciousness - our ability to perceive more than meets the eye, and to apprehend complex categorical and temporal information in a single highly-cognized glance. This superposition in experience matches a superposition of representational content in distributed representations.
161	connectionism	1995	ROBERTS, PL; MACLEOD, C	REPRESENTATIONAL CONSEQUENCES OF 2 MODES OF LEARNING	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY SECTION A-HUMAN EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Two experiments tested the hypothesis that a non-strategic mode of rule learning results in atomic representations.  In each case subjects were taught concepts under two different conditions, designed to favour either non-strategic or strategic learning.  Following training, subjects demonstrated an equivalent ability to discriminate exemplars from non-exemplars of the concepts acquired under each of these two learning conditions.  However, performance on a decompositional inference task, which required access to critical constituent elements within the rule representations, was disproportionately poor for a concept acquired under the training condition that favoured non-strategic learning.  These findings lend support to the view that rule acquisition can be mediated by either of two modes of learning, and that the format of knowledge representations is not equivalent across these two learning modes.
162	connectionism	1994	BOWER, GH	A TURNING-POINT IN MATHEMATICAL LEARNING-THEORY	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	This target article by Estes (1950) sparked the mathematical learning theory movement, which took seriously the goal of predicting quantitative details of behavioral data from standard learning experiments. The central constructs of Estes's theory were stimulus variability, stimulus sampling, and stimulus-response association by contiguity, all cast within a framework enabling predictions of response probabilities and latencies. The math models enterprise nourished during the period 1950-1975 and provided successful quantitative accounts of data from Pavlovian and instrumental conditioning, probability learning, verbal learning, concept identification, and other standard learning paradigms. The techniques have been assimilated into the armamentarium of theoretical psychology. Stimulus sampling theory has faded away as it has been transformed into modern descendants such as connectionism and information-processing models of cognition.
163	connectionism	1989	CLARK, A	CONNECTIONISM AND THE MULTIPLICITY OF MIND	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE REVIEW	0
164	connectionism	2003	Carruthers, P	On Fodor's problem	MIND & LANGUAGE	This paper sketches a solution to a problem which has been emphasized by Fodor. This is the problem of how to explain distinctively-human flexible cognition in modular terms. There are three aspects to the proposed account. First, it is suggested that natural language sentences might serve to integrate the outputs of a number of conceptual modules. Second, a creative sentence-generator, or supposer, is postulated. And third, it is argued that a set of principles of inference to the best explanation call be constructed from already-extant aspects of linguistic testimony and discourse interpretation. Most importantly, it is suggested that the resulting architecture should be implementable in ways that are computationally tractable.
165	connectionism	2001	Rondal, JA	Language in mental retardation: Individual and syndromic differences, and neurogenetic variation	SWISS JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	Predominantly non-etiological conceptions have dominated the field of mental retardation (MR) since the discovery of the genetic etiology of Down syndrome (DS) in the sixties. However, contemporary approaches are becoming more etiologically oriented. Important differences across MR syndromes of genetic origin are being documented, particularly in the cognition and language domains, differences not explicable in terms of psychometric level. motivation, or other dimensions. This paper highlights the major difficulties observed in the oral language development of individuals with genetic syndromes of mental retardation. The extent of inter- and with-in-syndrome variability are evaluated. Possible brain underpinnings of the behavioural differences are envisaged. Cases-of atypically favourable language development in MR individuals are also summarized and explanatory variables discussed. It is suggested that differences in brain architectures, originating in neurological development. and having genetic origins, may largely explain the syndromic as well as the individual within-syndrome variability documented. Lastly, the major implications of the above points for current debates about modularity and developmental connectionism are spelt out.
166	connectionism	1998	Wells, AJ	Turing's analysis of computation and theories of cognitive architecture	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Turing's analysis of computation is a fundamental part of the background of cognitive science. In this paper if is argued that a re-interpretation of Turing's work is required to underpin theorizing about cognitive architecture. It is claimed that the symbol systems view of the mind, which is the conventional way of understanding how Turing's work impacts on cognitive science, is deeply flawed. There is an alternative interpretation that is more faithful to Turing's original insights, avoids the criticisms mode of the symbol systems approach and is compatible with the growing interest in agent-environment interaction. it is argued that this interpretation should form the basis for theories of cognitive architecture.
167	connectionism	1996	Harley, TA	Connectionist modeling of the recovery of language functions following brain damage	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	This paper reviews the contribution of connectionism to our understanding of behavioral changes in language functions after brain damage. Connectionism is founded upon a neural metaphor in that connectionist networks are made up of many simple, neuron-like units. It is possible to lesion these networks and explore the effects of that damage. It is widely held that damaging connectionist networks informs our understanding of neuropsychology and cognitive psychology. To what extent then does it currently tell us, or is likely to tell us, anything about behavioral change following brain damage? Current connectionist models simulate either spontaneous recovery or the effects of retraining, and I discuss both approaches. Which is taken at present partly depends upon the connectionist framework used as the starting point. Most simulation work involving back-propagation has focused upon retraining lesioned networks, while work involving interactive activation has focused upon making inferences about the time course of spontaneous recovery. I discuss research in modeling deep dyslexia, aphasia, and dementia. I argue that further research on modeling spontaneous recovery is limited by the fixed architecture of most current connectionist networks. (C) 1996 Academic Press, Inc.
168	connectionism	1993	BUSEMEYER, JR; MYUNG, IJ; MCDANIEL, MA	CUE COMPETITION EFFECTS - THEORETICAL IMPLICATIONS FOR ADAPTIVE NETWORK LEARNING-MODELS	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	A feature-free method for testing adaptive network learning models is presented. The test is based on a property called the mean matching law, a. property shared by many adaptive network models of learning. As an application of this method, we prove that cue competition effects obtained with statistically independent cues cannot be explained by many previous adaptive network learning models, including those based on the delta learning rule. These results point to the need to incorporate competitive learning properties into adaptive network learning models.
169	connectionism	1993	HALPERIN, JRP; DUNHAM, DW	INCREASED AGGRESSIVENESS AFTER BRIEF SOCIAL-ISOLATION OF ADULT FISH - A CONNECTIONIST MODEL WHICH ORGANIZES THIS LITERATURE	BEHAVIOURAL PROCESSES	We examine the literature on fishes' aggressive behaviour after social isolation, in the light of a connectionist adaptive control system model for robot motivation and learning. If animals used the model's motivation modules, then social isolation would cause two simultaneous processes to occur-one progressively increasing motivation, the other decreasing display readiness. The readiness decrement would have the temporal flexibility typical of motivation changes, and would disappear soon after social stimuli reappeared. The incremental effect would be synaptic, and would be temporally more stable. Due to this stability difference, brief post-isolation aggression tests would tend to show that social isolates have depressed attack readiness, but longer tests would uncover the underlying increase in aggressiveness. In reviewing the literature, we find that this has been overwhelmingly the case. A new hypothesis about the adaptive value of the increase of aggression during isolation is outlined, which may help make the phenomenon more understandable.
170	connectionism	1988	MCCARTHY, J	EPISTEMOLOGICAL CHALLENGES FOR CONNECTIONISM	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	0
171	connectionism	2010	Bowers, JS	More on Grandmother Cells and the Biological Implausibility of PDP Models of Cognition: A Reply to Plaut and McClelland (2010) and Quian Quiroga and Kreiman (2010)	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Plaut and McClelland (2010) and Quian Quiroga and Kreiman (2010) both challenged my characterization of localist and distributed representations. They also challenged the biological plausibility of grandmother cells on conceptual and empirical grounds. This reply addresses these issues in turn. The premise of my argument is that grandmother cells in neuroscience are the equivalent of localist representations in psychology. When defined in this way, grandmother cells are biologically plausible, given the neuroscience to date. By contrast, the neurophysiology is shown to be inconsistent with the distributed representations often learned in existing parallel distributed processing (PDP) models, and it poses a challenge to PDP theories more generally.
172	connectionism	2009	Gurney, KN	Reverse Engineering the Vertebrate Brain: Methodological Principles for a Biologically Grounded Programme of Cognitive Modelling	COGNITIVE COMPUTATION	How are we to go about understanding the computations that underpin cognition? Here we set out a methodological framework that helps understand different approaches to solving this problem. We argue that a very powerful stratagem is to attempt to 'reverse engineer' the brain and that computational neuroscience plays a pivotal role in this programme. En passant, we also tackle the oftasked and prior question of why we should build computational models of any kind. Our framework uses four levels of conceptual analysis: computation, algorithm, mechanism and biological substrate. As such it enables us to understand how (algorithmic) AI and connectionism may be recruited to help propel the reverse-engineering programme forward. The framework also incorporates the notion of different levels of structural description of the brain, and analysis of this issue gives rise to a novel proposal for capturing computations at multiple levels of description in a single model.
173	connectionism	2007	McCauley, RN	REDUCTION: MODELS OF CROSS-SCIENTIFIC RELATIONS AND THEIR IMPLICATIONS FOR THE PSYCHOLOGY-NEUROSCIENCE INTERFACE	PHILOSOPHY OF PSYCHOLOGY AND COGNITIVE SCIENCE	0
174	connectionism	2006	Frank, SL	Learn more by training less: systematicity in sentence processing by recurrent networks	CONNECTION SCIENCE	Connectionist models of sentence processing must learn to behave systematically by generalizing from a small training set. To what extent recurrent neural networks manage this generalization task is investigated. In contrast to Van der Velde et al. (Connection Sci., 16, pp. 21-46, 2004), it is found that simple recurrent networks do show so-called weak combinatorial systematicity, although their performance remains limited. It is argued that these limitations arise from overfitting in large networks. Generalization can be improved by increasing the size of the recurrent layer without training its connections, thereby combining a large short-term memory with a small long-term memory capacity. Performance can be improved further by increasing the number of word types in the training set.
175	connectionism	2005	Thomas, MSC	Characterising compensation	CORTEX	This article considers Ullman and Pierpont's Procedural Deficit theory of Specific Language Impairment (SLI). The theory represents an innovative attempt to fill the gap between brain and cognition in SLI, and has the potential to explain the non-linguistic as well as linguistic deficits seen in this disorder. The theory is reviewed with regard to: (1) the claims it makes on the domain-specificity of language structures; (2) the falsifiability conditions of the theory; (3) the level of detail at which compensatory processes are specified; and (4) from a computational perspective, whether the inferences that the theory draws from uneven behavioural impairments to underlying structural deficits are necessary ones.
176	connectionism	2005	Dawson, MRW	Connectionism: A Hands-On Approach	CONNECTIONISM: A HANDS-ON APPROACH	0
177	connectionism	1999	Alegre, M; Gordon, P	Rule-based versus associative processes in derivational morphology	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	The present article examines whether derivational morphology shows evidence of an associative memory structure. A distributional analysis of stems of attested derivational farms revealed evidence of clustering around phonological properties (gangs) for all nonneutral affixes but only a few neutral affixes. Subjects' acceptability ratings for novel complex words revealed sensitivity to the gang structure associated with the relevant derivational affixes. Results suggest that, like inflectional morphology, derivational morphology shows dissociations between rule-based and associative generalization mechanisms, (C) 1999 Academic Press.
178	connectionism	1993	CHANDLER, S	ARE RULES AND MODULES REALLY NECESSARY FOR EXPLAINING LANGUAGE	JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLINGUISTIC RESEARCH	Over the past few years Steven Pinker has argued that although some aspects of language may be more associational, and therefore properly modeled in connectionist networks, for the most part human language is still best characterized as a modularized set of rule-symbol systems. In support of his claim, Pinker garners a broad array of clinical, experimental, and observational data from neurology, psychology, and linguistics. Those data, unfortunately, are not compelling because they do not support his position uniquely. In this paper, I show how each of his arguments is compatible with alternative interpretations. I argue, moreover, that in focusing on certain details of connectionist models Pinker and his colleagues actually overlooked both the most serious deficiencies of the connectionist approach and its most significant theoretical contribution. I conclude by sketching briefly some emerging alternatives to connectionism which avoid those deficiencies while retaining its strengths over the rule-symbol systems of linguistic theory.
179	connectionism	1992	HORGAN, T; TIENSON, J	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS AS DYNAMIC-SYSTEMS	TOPOI-AN INTERNATIONAL REVIEW OF PHILOSOPHY	0
180	connectionism	2008	Grand, C; Honey, RC	Solving XOR	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-ANIMAL BEHAVIOR PROCESSES	Three experiments examined the way in which exclusive-or (XOR) problems are solved by rats. All rats first received food-rewarded positive and negative patterning problems with two stimulus sets: either A+, B+, AB- and C-, D-, CD+. or A-, B-, AB + and C+, D +, and CD-. Subsequently, rats received revaluation trials in which A was paired with shock and C was not, prior to generalization test trials with B, D, AB, and CD (Experiments 1 & 2) or received A -> shock trials prior to tests with B and CD (Experiment 3). There was greater generalized fear to B than to either D (Experiments I & 2) or AB (Experiment 2) and CID (Experiments 2 & 3). These results are inconsistent with configural, connectionist models, but are consistent with an alternative connectionist model that can represent the logical structure of XOR problems.
181	connectionism	2007	Stanojevic, M; Vranes, S	Knowledge representation with SOUL	EXPERT SYSTEMS WITH APPLICATIONS	Good knowledge organization is crucial in two cases-in the representation of semantically related information and in the representation of huge quantities of data. The answer to the problem of semantic knowledge representation is given by various knowledge representation techniques used in Artificial Intelligence, while for the representation of large quantities of data, relational databases represent the optimal choice. If we analyze the characteristics important from the knowledge organization point of view, we could say that structure representation provides means for knowledge representation, unique object representation ensures representational efficiency, while representation of bottom-up hierarchies (e.g. indexing scheme in relational databases) brings search efficiency. Furthermore, unique object representation and bottom-up (contextual) hierarchies provide support for semantically organized knowledge. In this paper we describe a knowledge representation technique, Hierarchical Semantic Form (HSF), which, together with the Space Of Universal Links (SOUL) algorithm, aims at supporting both of the above mentioned characteristics of well organized knowledge. HSF represents a hybrid solution that enables both structure and context representations, combining the characteristics of classicist approach (symbolic and semantic processing) with the characteristics of connectionist approach (parallelism, learning). (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
182	connectionism	2006	Smolensky, P	Harmony in linguistic cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In this article, I survey the integrated connectionist/symbolic (ICS) cognitive architecture in which higher cognition must be formally characterized on two levels of description. At the microlevel, parallel distributed processing (PDP) characterizes mental processing; this PDP system has special organization in virtue of which it can be characterized at the macrolevel as a kind of symbolic computational system. The symbolic system inherits certain properties from its PDP substrate; the symbolic functions computed constitute optimization of a well-formedness measure called Harmony. The most important outgrowth of the ICS research program is optimality theory (Prince & Smolensky, 1993/2004), an optimization-based grammatical theory that provides a formal theory of cross-linguistic typology. Linguistically, Harmony maximization corresponds to minimization of markedness or structural ill-formedness. Cognitive explanation in ICS requires the collaboration of symbolic and connectionist principles. ICS is developed in detail in Smolensky and Legendre (2006a); this article is a precis of and guide to those volumes.
183	connectionism	2001	Hadley, RF; Rotaru-Varga, A; Arnold, DV; Cardei, VC	Syntactic systematicity arising from semantic predictions in a Hebbian-competitive network	CONNECTION SCIENCE	A Hebbian-inspired, competitive network is presented which learns to predict the typical semantic features of denoting terms in simple and moderately complex sentences. In addition, the network learns to predict the appearance of syntactically key words, such as prepositions and relative pronouns. Importantly, as a by-product of the network's semantic training, a strong form of syntactic systematicity emerges. This systematicity is exhibited even at a novel, deeper level of clausal embedding. All network training is unsupervised with respect to error feedback. A novel variant of competitive learning and an unusual hierarchical architecture are presented. The relationship of this work to issues raised by Marcus and Phillips is explored.
184	connectionism	2000	Berkeley, ISN	What the #$*%! is a Subsymbol?	MINDS AND MACHINES	In 1988, Smolensky proposed that connectionist processing systems should be understood as operating at what he termed the 'subsymbolic' level. Subsymbolic systems should be understood by comparing them to symbolic systems, in Smolensky's view. Up until recently, there have been real problems with analyzing and interpreting the operation of connectionist systems which have undergone training. However, recently published work on a network trained on a set of logic problems originally studied by Bechtel and Abrahamsen (1991) seems to offer the potential to provide a detailed, empirically based answer to questions about the nature of subsymbols. In this paper, a network analysis procedure and the results obtained using it are discussed. This provides the basis for an insight into the nature of subsymbols, which is surprising.
185	connectionism	1999	Hadley, RF; Cardei, VC	Language acquisition from sparse input without error feedback	NEURAL NETWORKS	A connectionist-inspired, parallel processing network is presented which learns, on the basis of(relevantly) sparse input, to assign meaning interpretations to novel test sentences in both active and passive voice. Training and test sentences are generated from a simple recursive grammar, but once trained, the network successfully processes thousands of sentences containing deeply embedded clauses. All training is unsupervised with regard to error feedback - only Hebbian and self-organizing forms of training are employed. In addition, the active-passive distinction is acquired without any supervised provision of cues or flags (in the output layer) that indicate whether the input sentence is in active or passive sentence. In more detail: (1) The model learns on the basis of a corpus of about 1000 sentences while the set of potential test sentences contains over 100 million sentences. (2) The model generalizes its capacity to interpret active and passive sentences to substantially deeper levels of clausal embedding. (3) After training, the model satisfies criteria for strong syntactic and strong semantic systematicity that humans also satisfy. (4) Symbolic message passing occurs within the model's output layer. This symbolic aspect reflects certain prior language acquistion assumptions. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
186	connectionism	1998	Haselager, WFG; Van Rappard, JFH	Connectionism, systematicity, and the frame problem	MINDS AND MACHINES	This paper investigates connectionism's potential to solve the frame problem. The frame problem arises in the context of modelling the human ability to see the relevant consequences of events in a situation. It has been claimed to be unsolvable for classical cognitive science, but easily manageable for connectionism. We will focus on a representational approach to the frame problem which advocates the use of intrinsic representations. We argue that although connectionism's distributed representations may look promising from this perspective, doubts can be raised about the potential of distributed representations to allow large amounts of complexly structured information to be adequately encoded and processed. It is questionable whether connectionist models that are claimed to effectively represent structured information can be scaled up to a realistic extent. We conclude that the frame problem provides a difficulty to connectionism that is no less serious than the obstacle it constitutes for classical cognitive science.
187	connectionism	2008	Mira, JM	Symbols versus connections: 50 years of artificial intelligence	NEUROCOMPUTING	Artificial intelligence (AI) was born connectionist when in 1943 Warren S. McCulloch and Walter Pitts introduced the first sequential logic model of neuron. The 1950s sees the passage from numerical to symbolic computation with the christening of AI in 1956. In 1986, there is a rebirth of connectionism at the same time that an emphasis in knowledge modeling and inference, both symbolic and connectionist. We thus reach the present state in which different paradigms coexist (symbolic, connectionist, situated and hybrid). In this work, we will attempt (1) to approach the concept of AI both as a science of the natural and as knowledge engineering (KE); (2) summarize some of the conceptual, formal and methodological approaches to the development of AI during the last 50 years, (3) mention some of the constitutive differences between human knowing and machine knowing and (4) propose some suggestions that we believe must be adopted to progress in developing AI. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
188	connectionism	2006	Heidemann, G	The principal components of natural images revisited	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE	This paper investigates the principal components (PCs) of natural gray and color images. A horizontal and vertical typology of PCs is found which leads to the identification of groups of basis functions for steerable bandpass filters. Using this system, the contribution of spatio-chromatic structure to the total variance can be quantified for selected spatial frequencies.
189	connectionism	2005	Torres-Huitzil, C; Girau, B; Castellanos-Sanchez, C	On-chip visual perception of motion: A bio-inspired connectionist model on FPGA	NEURAL NETWORKS	Visual motion provides useful information to understand the dynamics of a scene to allow intelligent systems interact with their environment. Motion computation is usually restricted by real time requirements that need the design and implementation of specific hardware architectures. In this paper, the design of hardware architecture for a bio-inspired neural model for motion estimation is presented. The motion estimation is based on a strongly localized bio-inspired connectionist model with a particular adaptation of spatio-temporal Gabor-like filtering. The architecture is constituted by three main modules that perform spatial, temporal, and excitatory-inhibitory connectionist processing. The biomimetic architecture is modeled, simulated and validated in VHDL. The synthesis results on a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) device show the potential achievement of real-time performance at an affordable silicon area. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
190	connectionism	2002	Tabor, W	The value of symbolic computation	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Standard generative linguistic theory, which uses discrete symbolic models of cognition, has some strengths and weaknesses. It is strong on providing a network of outposts that make scientific travel in the jungles of natural language feasible. It is weak in that it currently depends on the elaborate and unformalized use of intuition to develop critical supporting assumptions about each data point. In this regard, it is not in a position to characterize natural language systems in the lawful terms that ecological psychologists strive for. Connectionist learning models offer some help: They define lawful relations between linguistic environments and language systems. But our understanding of them is currently weak, especially when it comes to natural language syntax. Fortunately, symbolic linguistic analysis can help connectionism if the two meet via dynamical systems theory. I discuss a case in point: Insights from linguistic explorations of natural language syntax appear to have identified information structures that are particularly relevant to understanding ecologically appealing but analytically mysterious connectionist learning models.
191	connectionism	1998	Mandelblit, N; Zachar, O	The notion of dynamic unit: Conceptual developments in cognitive science	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We suggest ct common ground for alternative proposals in different domains of cognitive science which have previously seemed to have little in common. the underlying common theme is associated with a redefinition of the basic unit of analysis in each domain of thought. Our framework suggests ct definition of unity which is based not on inherent properties of the elements constituting the unit, but rather on dynamic patterns of correlation across the elements. We introduce a set of features that characterize the new dynamic units, and distinguish them from traditional units of analysis. A conceptual connection is made with the identification of elementary units in modern physics theories, as well as with concepts and structures in the study of complex dynamical systems and connectionism. The paper analyses the evolution of the concept of unit in different domains of thought in cognitive science, and examines the proposed framework of "dynamic unity" with regard to various theoretical problems within each domain. The particular cognitive science issues discussed in the paper include: (1) the binding problem in the brain; (2) the mental unit of conceptual organization; (3) defining 'wordhood' in linguistics; and (4) identifying the unit of cognition in the natural environment.
192	connectionism	1996	Lloyd, D	Consciousness, connectionism, and cognitive neuroscience: A meeting of the minds	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Accounting for phenomenal structure - the forms, aspects, and features of conscious experience - poses a deep challenge for the scientific study of consciousness, but rather than abandon hope I propose a way forward. Connectionism, I argue, offers a bi-directional analogy, with its oft-noted ''neural inspiration'' on the one hand, and its largely unnoticed capacity to illuminate our phenomenology on the other. Specifically, distributed representations in a recurrent network enable networks to superpose categorical, contextual, and temporal information on a specific input representation, much as our own experience does. Artificial neural networks also suggest analogues of four salient distinctions between sensory and nonsensory consciousness. The paper concludes with speculative proposals for discharging the connectionist heuristics to leave a robust, detailed empirical theory of consciousness.
193	connectionism	1996	Gardenfors, P	Mental representation, conceptual spaces and metaphors	SYNTHESE	0
194	connectionism	1994	SEIDENBERG, MS	LANGUAGE AND CONNECTIONISM - THE DEVELOPING INTERFACE	COGNITION	After a difficult initial period in which connectionism was perceived as either irrelevant or antithetical to linguistic theory, connectionist concepts are now beginning to be brought to bear on basic issues concerning the structure, acquisition, and processing of language, both normal and disordered. This article describes some potential points of further contact between connectionism and linguistic theory. I consider how connectionist concepts may be relevant to issues concerning the representation of linguistic knowledge; the role of a priori constraints on acquisition; and the poverty of the stimulus argument. I then discuss whether these models contribute to the development of explanatory theories of language.
195	connectionism	1994	PHILLIPS, S	STRONG SYSTEMATICITY WITHIN CONNECTIONISM - THE TENSOR-RECURRENT NETWORK	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTEENTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	0
196	connectionism	1992	HOOKER, CA; PENFOLD, HB; EVANS, RJ	TOWARDS A THEORY OF COGNITION UNDER A NEW CONTROL PARADIGM	TOPOI-AN INTERNATIONAL REVIEW OF PHILOSOPHY	0
197	connectionism	1988	SMOLENSKY, P	PUTTING TOGETHER CONNECTIONISM - AGAIN	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	0
198	connectionism	2014	Goel, V	Creative brains: designing in the real world	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	The process of designing artifacts is a creative activity. It is proposed that, at the cognitive level, one key to understanding design creativity is to understand the array of symbol systems designers utilize. These symbol systems range from being vague, imprecise, abstract, ambiguous, and indeterminate (like conceptual sketches), to being very precise, concrete, unambiguous, and determinate (like contract documents). The former types of symbol systems support associative processes that facilitate lateral (or divergent) transformations that broaden the problem space, while the latter types of symbol systems support inference processes facilitating vertical (or convergent) transformations that deepen of the problem space. The process of artifact design requires the judicious application of both lateral and vertical transformations. This leads to a dual mechanism model of design problem-solving comprising of an associative engine and an inference engine. It is further claimed that this dual mechanism model is supported by an interesting hemispheric dissociation in human prefrontal cortex. The associative engine and neural structures that support imprecise, ambiguous, abstract, indeterminate representations are lateralized in the right prefrontal cortex, while the inference engine and neural structures that support precise, unambiguous, determinant representations are lateralized in the left prefrontal cortex. At the brain level, successful design of artifacts requires a delicate balance between the two hemispheres of prefrontal cortex.
199	connectionism	2008	van Leeuwen, C	Chaos breeds autonomy: connectionist design between bias and baby-sitting	COGNITIVE PROCESSING	In connectionism and its offshoots, models acquire functionality through externally controlled learning schedules. This undermines the claim of these models to autonomy. Providing these models with intrinsic biases is not a solution, as it makes their function dependent on design assumptions. Between these two alternatives, there is room for approaches based on spontaneous self-organization. Structural reorganization in adaptation to spontaneous activity is a well-known phenomenon in neural development. It is proposed here as a way to prepare connectionist models for learning and enhance the autonomy of these models.
200	connectionism	2008	Farkas, I; Crocker, MW	Syntactic systematicity in sentence processing with a recurrent self-organizing network	NEUROCOMPUTING	As potential candidates for explaining human cognition, connectionist models of sentence processing must demonstrate their ability to behave systematically, generalizing from a small training set. It has recently been shown that simple recurrent networks and, to a greater extent, echo-state networks possess some ability to generalize in artificial language learning tasks. We investigate this capacity for a recently introduced model that consists of separately trained modules: a recursive self-organizing module for learning temporal context representations and a feedforward two-layer perceptron module for next-word prediction. We show that the performance of this architecture is comparable with echo-state networks. Taken together, these results weaken the criticism of connectionist approaches, showing that various general recursive connectionist architectures share the potential of behaving systematically. (c) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
201	connectionism	1993	MENDELSON, JR; SCHREINER, CE; SUTTER, ML; GRASSE, KL	FUNCTIONAL TOPOGRAPHY OF CAT PRIMARY AUDITORY-CORTEX - RESPONSES TO FREQUENCY-MODULATED SWEEPS	EXPERIMENTAL BRAIN RESEARCH	The spatial distribution of neuronal responses to frequency-modulated (FM) sweeps was mapped with microelectrodes in the primary auditory cortex (AI) of barbiturate-anesthetized cats. Increasing and decreasing FM sweeps (upward- and downward-directed FM sweeps, respectively) covering a range of 0.25 64.0 kHz were presented at three different rates of frequency change over time (i.e., sweep speed). Using multiunit recordings, the high-frequency domain (between 3.2 and 26.3 kHz) of Al was mapped over most of its dorsoventral extent (as determined by the distribution of the excitatory bandwidth, Q10dB) for all six cases studied. The spatial distributions of the preferred sweep speed and the preferred sweep direction were determined for each case. Neuronal responses for frequency sweeps of different speeds appeared to be systematically distributed along the dorsoventral axis of Al. In the dorsal region, cortical cells typically responded best to fast and/or medium FM sweeps, followed more ventrally by cells that responded best to medium - then slow -, then medium-speed FM sweeps. In the more ventral aspect of Al (which in some cases may also have included cells located in the dorsal region of the second auditory field, All), neurons generally preferred fast FM sweeps. However, a comparison of maps from different animals showed that there was more variability in the distribution of preferred speed responses in the ventral region of the cortex. The directional preference of units for FM sweeps was determined for the sweep speed producing the strongest response. Direction selectivity appeared to be nonrandomly distributed along the dorsoventral axis of AI. In general, units that responded best to upward-directed FM sweeps were located in the more dorsal and ventral aspects of Al while units that responded best to downward-directed FM sweeps were usually located in the mid-region of Al. Direction selectivity was also determined for multiunit responses at each of the three FM sweep speeds. In general, there was a relatively close agreement between the spatial distributions of direction selectivity determined for the strongest response with those calculated for the fast and medium speeds. The spatial distribution of direction selectivity determined for slow FM sweeps deviated somewhat from that determined for the strongest response. Near the dorsoventral center of the mapped areas, the distribution of units that responded best to downward sweeps tended to overlay the distribution of units that responded best to slow speeds, suggesting some spatial covariance of the two parameters. However, when the analysis was extended over the entire region of cortex examined in this study, the point-by-point correlation between preferred speed and direction selectivity was not statistically significant. In addition, when neural responses obtained from the dorsal and ventral subregions were analyzed separately, no significant correlation was observed between these two response parameters. This suggests that, for a given cortical location, the response properties of direction selectivity and preferred speed are derived from distinct neural processing mechanisms. Significant observations were also made between preferred FM sweep speed and excitatory bandwidth (i.e., Q10dB and Q40dB) such that units that responded best to slower FM speeds also seemed to have higher Q10dB and Q40dB (i.e. , were narrowly tuned) and vice versa. In addition, units that responded well to a broadband transient stimulus in general preferred faster FM sweeps and vice versa. Although these correlations were significant across the entire dorsoventral extent of Al investigated in this study, they were stronger for responses in the dorsal subregion of Al. For direction selectivity, statistically significant correlations with these response parameters were observed more often in the dorsal than the ventral regions of AI.  The apparent spatial segregation of neuronal responses to different FM sweep speeds and sweep directions distributed along the isofrequency domain of AI suggests that the global aspects of cortical function are compatible with psychopliysically derived notions of parallel streams of processing for different aspects of FM signals.
202	connectionism	2008	Blasone, RS; Vrugt, JA; Madsen, H; Rosbjerg, D; Robinson, BA; Zyvoloski, GA	Generalized likelihood uncertainty estimation (GLUE) using adaptive Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling	ADVANCES IN WATER RESOURCES	In the last few decades hydrologists have made tremendous progress in using dynamic simulation models for the analysis and understanding of hydrologic systems. However, predictions with these models are often deterministic and as such they focus on the most probable forecast, without an explicit estimate of the associated uncertainty. This uncertainty arises from incomplete process representation, uncertainty in initial conditions, input, output and parameter error. The generalized likelihood uncertainty estimation (GLUE) framework was one of the first attempts to represent prediction uncertainty within the context of Monte Carlo (MC) analysis coupled with Bayesian estimation and propagation of uncertainty. Because of its flexibility, ease of implementation and its suitability for parallel implementation on distributed computer systems, the GLUE method has been used in a wide variety of applications. However, the MC based sampling strategy of the prior parameter space typically utilized in GLUE is not particularly efficient in finding behavioral simulations. This becomes especially problematic for high-dimensional parameter estimation problems, and in the case of complex simulation models that require significant computational time to run and produce the desired output. In this paper we improve the computational efficiency of GLUE by sampling the prior parameter space using an adaptive Markov Chain Monte Carlo scheme (the Shuffled Complex Evolution Metropolis (SCEM-UA) algorithm). Moreover, we propose an alternative strategy to determine the value of the cutoff threshold based on the appropriate coverage of the resulting uncertainty bounds. We demonstrate the Superiority of this revised GLUE method with three different conceptual watershed models of increasing complexity, using both synthetic and real-world stream-flow data from two catchments with different hydrologic regimes. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
203	connectionism	2005	Peers, PV; Ludwig, CJH; Rorden, C; Cusack, R; Bonfiglioli, C; Bundesen, C; Driver, J; Antoun, N; Duncan, J	Attentional functions of parietal and frontal cortex	CEREBRAL CORTEX	A model of normal attentional function, based on the concept of competitive parallel processing, is used to compare attentional deficits following parietal and frontal lobe lesions. Measurements are obtained for visual processing speed, capacity of visual short-term memory (VSTM), spatial bias (bias to left or right hemifield) and top-down control (selective attention based on task relevance). The results show important differences, but also surprising similarities, in parietal and frontal lobe patients. For processing speed and VSTM, deficits are selectively associated with parietal lesions, in particular lesions of the temporoparietal junction. We discuss explanations based on either grey matter or white matter lesions. In striking contrast, measures of attentional weighting (spatial bias and top-down control) are predicted by simple lesion volume. We suggest that attentional weights reflect competition between broadly distributed object representations. Parietal and frontal mechanisms work together, both in weighting by location and weighting by task context.
204	connectionism	1996	Hino, Y; Lupker, SJ	Effects of polysemy in lexical decision and naming: An alternative to lexical access accounts	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The effects of polysemy (number of meanings) and word frequency were examined in lexical decision and naming tasks. Polysemy effects were observed in both tasks. In the lexical decision task, high- and low-frequency words produced identical polysemy effects. In the naming task, however, polysemy interacted with frequency, with polysemy effects being limited to low-frequency words. When degraded stimuli were used in both tasks, the interaction appeared not only in naming but also in lexical decision. Because stimulus degradation also produced an effect of spelling-sound regularity in the lexical decision task, the different relationships between polysemy and frequency appear to be due to whether responding was based primarily on orthographic or phonological codes. As such, the effects of polysemy seem to be due to the nature of task-specific processes. An explanation in terms of M. S. Seidenberg and J. L. McClelland's (1989) and D. C. Plaut and J. L. McClelland's (1993) parallel distributed processing models is proposed.
205	connectionism	1992	BAL, HE; KAASHOEK, MF; TANENBAUM, AS	ORCA - A LANGUAGE FOR PARALLEL PROGRAMMING OF DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTWARE ENGINEERING	Orca is a language for implementing parallel applications on loosely coupled distributed systems. Unlike most languages for distributed programming, it allows processes on different machines to share data. Such data are encapsulated in data-objects, which are instances of user-defined abstract data types. The implementation of Orca takes care of the physical distribution of objects among the local memories of the processors. In particular, an implementation may replicate and/or migrate objects in order to decrease access times to objects and increase parallelism. This paper gives a detailed description of the Orca language design and motivates the design choices. Orca is intended for applications programmers rather than systems programmers. This is reflected in its design goals to provide a simple, easy to use language that is type-secure and provides clean semantics. The paper discusses three example parallel applications in Orca, one of which is described in detail. It also describes one of the existing implementations, which is based on reliable broadcasting. Performance measurements of this system are given for three parallel applications. The measurements show that significant speedups can be obtained for all three applications. Finally, the paper compares Orca with several related languages and systems.
206	connectionism	2009	Antcheva, I; Ballintijn, M; Bellenot, B; Biskup, M; Brun, R; Buncic, N; Canal, P; Casadei, D; Couet, O; Fine, V; Franco, L; Ganis, G; Gheata, A; Maline, DG; Goto, M; Iwaszkiewicz, J; Kreshuk, A; Segura, DM; Maunder, R; Moneta, L; Naumann, A; Offermann, E; Onuchin, V; Panacek, S; Rademakers, F; Russo, R; Tadel, M	ROOT - A C++ framework for petabyte data storage, statistical analysis and visualization	COMPUTER PHYSICS COMMUNICATIONS	ROOT is an object-oriented C++ framework conceived in the high-energy physics (HEP) community. designed for storing and analyzing petabytes of data in an efficient way. Any instance of a C++ class can be stored into a ROOT file in a machine-independent compressed binary format. In ROOT the 17ree object container is optimized for statistical data analysis over very large data sets by using vertical data storage techniques. These containers can span a large number of files on local disks, the web, or a number of different shared file systems. In order to analyze this data, the user can chose out of a wide set of mathematical and statistical functions, inClUding linear algebra classes, numerical algorithms such as integration and minimization, and various methods for performing regression analysis (fitting). In particular. the RooFit package allows the user to perform complex data modeling and fitting while the RooStats library provides abstractions and implementations for advanced statistical tools. Multivariate classification methods based on machine learning techniques are available via the TMVA package. A central piece in these analysis tools are the histogram classes which provide binning of one- and multi-dimensional data. Results can be saved in high-quality graphical formats like Postscript and PDF or in bitmap formats like JPG or GIF. The result can also be stored into ROOT macros that allow a full recreation and rework of the graphics. Users typically create their analysis macros step by step, making use of the interactive C++ interpreter CINT, while running over small data samples. Once the development is finished, they can run these macros at full compiled speed over large data sets. using onthe-fly compilation, or by creating a stand-alone batch program. Finally, if processing farms are available, the user can reduce the execution time of intrinsically parallel tasks - e.g. data mining in HEP - by using PROOF, which will take care of optimally distributing the work over the available resources in a transparent way. Program summary Program title: ROOT Catalogue identifier: AEFA_v1_0 Program summary URL: http://cpc.cs.qub.ac.uk/summaries/AEFA-v1- 0.html Program obtainable from: CPC Program Library, Queen's University, Belfast, N. Ireland Licensing provisions: LGPL No. of lines in distributed program, including test data, etc.: 3 044 581 No. of bytes in distributed program, including test data, etc.: 36 325 133 Distribution format., tar.gz Programming language: C++ Computer: Intel 1386, Intel x86-64, Motorola PPC, Sun Sparc, HP PA-RISC Operating system: GNU/Linux, Windows XP/Vista, Mac OS X, FreeBSD, OpenBSD, Solaris, HP-LIX, AIX Has the code been vectorized or parallelized?: Yes RAM: > 55 Mbytes Classification: 4, 9, 11.9, 14 Nature of problem: Storage, analysis and visualization of scientific data Solution method: Object store, wide range of analysis algorithms and visualization methods Additional comments: For an up-to-date author list see: http://root.cern.ch/drupal/content/rootdevelopment-team and http://root.cern.ch/drupa]/content/former-root-developers Running time: Depending on the data size and complexity of analysis algorithms References: [1] http://root.cern.ch. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
207	connectionism	1999	Grabowski, WW; Smolarkiewicz, PK	CRCP: a Cloud Resolving Convection Parameterization for modeling the tropical convecting atmosphere	PHYSICA D	A new computational approach, CRCP, is proposed in which both the large-scale (LS) tropical dynamics and cloud-scale (CS) dynamics are captured explicitly. The leading idea is to represent subgrid scales of the LS model by imbedding a 2D CS model in each column of the 3D LS model - the approach tailored for distributed memory architectures. The overall philosophy underlying CRCP is the reinvestment of efforts from large-eddy simulation to elaborate yet 'embarrassingly parallel' turbulence models. Similar as in the traditional 'convection parameterization', the LS model provides 'ambient forcings' for the CS model imbedded inside each LS column, and the CS model feeds back a 'convective response' for every column of the LS model. Furthermore, availability of the cloud-scale data allows for explicit coupling of moist convection with radiative and surface processes. Following our experience with cloud-resolving modeling of the tropical convection, the CS model is oriented along the E-W direction inside each LS model column. A simple strategy for the coupling the LS and CS models derives from physical understanding of interactions between LS flow and moist tropical convection. Theoretical considerations are illustrated with an example of application to observational data from the Phase III of the Global Atmospheric Research Programme Atlantic Tropical Experiment (GATE). (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
208	connectionism	1999	Johnson, BA; Woo, CC; Hingco, EE; Pham, KL; Leon, M	Multidimensional chemotopic responses to n-aliphatic acid odorants in the rat olfactory bulb	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	In an effort to understand the means by which similar chemical odorants are encoded in the mammalian brain, we exposed rats to a homologous series of n-aliphatic acids and mapped the response of the entire olfactory bulb glomerular layer by using a high-resolution [C-14]-2-deoxyglucose uptake technique. We found that these similar odorants evoked spatially clustered but distinct responses in the bulb that changed systematically with carbon chain length. In addition to these chemotopic responses, different odorants within the series evoked systematic differences along two other dimensions: amount of deoxyglucose uptake and extent of the glomerular layer showing high activity. Increases along these two dimensions also were correlated with increasing carbon number. The focal glomerular responses were mirrored by responses in deeper bulb layers. Decreasing the odorant concentration decreased the deoxyglucose uptake within focal regions. The focal regions of activity occurred in pairs involving both medial and lateral representations in the bulb, perhaps reflecting the paired medial and lateral projections of olfactory sensory neurons expressing specific types of odorant feature receptor proteins. The observed spatial pattern of response also may explain both the failure of some bulb lesions to interfere with behavioral olfactory responses and the success of other lesions in blocking olfactory responses. These data support a model of parallel, distributed processing of odorants along multiple dimensions. They also support the notion that analyses of the spatial relationships among odorant responses in the olfactory bulb can demonstrate aspects of the mechanism for odor chemical coding. (C) 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
209	connectionism	2012	Roesti, M; Hendry, AP; Salzburger, W; Berner, D	Genome divergence during evolutionary diversification as revealed in replicate lake-stream stickleback population pairs	MOLECULAR ECOLOGY	Evolutionary diversification is often initiated by adaptive divergence between populations occupying ecologically distinct environments while still exchanging genes. The genetic foundations of this divergence process are largely unknown and are here explored through genome scans in multiple independent lakestream population pairs of threespine stickleback. We find that across the pairs, overall genomic divergence is associated with the magnitude of divergence in phenotypes known to be under divergent selection. Along this same axis of increasing diversification, genomic divergence becomes increasingly biased towards the centre of chromosomes as opposed to the peripheries. We explain this pattern by within-chromosome variation in the physical extent of hitchhiking, as recombination is greatly reduced in chromosome centres. Correcting for this effect suggests that a great number of genes distributed widely across the genome are involved in the divergence into lake vs. stream habitats. Analyzing additional allopatric population pairs, however, reveals that strong divergence in some genomic regions has been driven by selection unrelated to lakestream ecology. Our study highlights a major contribution of large-scale variation in recombination rate to generating heterogeneous genomic divergence and indicates that elucidating the genetic basis of adaptive divergence might be more challenging than currently recognized.
210	connectionism	2001	Cayouette, M; Whitmore, AV; Jeffery, G; Raff, M	Asymmetric segregation of numb in retinal development and the influence of the pigmented epithelium	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Asymmetric segregation of cell-fate determinants during cytokinesis plays an important part in controlling cell-fate choice in invertebrates. During Drosophila neurogenesis, for example, asymmetric segregation of the Numb protein, which inhibits Notch signaling, is necessary for the two daughter cells of a division to have different fates. In vertebrates, the role of asymmetric segregation of cell-fate determinants is uncertain, and the way the process might be regulated is unknown. We have studied the orientation of cell divisions and the distribution of Numb in the developing rat retina. We show that, whereas most retinal neuroepithelial cells divide with their mitotic spindles oriented parallel to the plane of the neuroepithelium, a substantial minority divides with their spindles oriented perpendicularly. The proportion of these vertically dividing cells changes during development, peaking around the day of birth. Numb appears to be inherited only by the apical daughter cell when a neuroepithelial cell divides vertically. Similarly, in dissociated cell cultures, some retinal neuroepithelial cells divide asymmetrically and distribute Numb to only one of the two daughter cells, suggesting that the dissociated cells can retain their polarity in vitro. Using retinal explant cultures, we find that the retinal pigment epithelium apparently promotes vertical divisions in the neural retina. To our knowledge, this is the first evidence that asymmetric segregation of cell-fate determinants may contribute to cell diversification in the mammalian retina and that an epithelium controls this process by influencing the plane of division in the adjacent neural retina.
211	connectionism	1993	WANG, ZL; GOYAL, A; KROEGER, DM	STRUCTURAL AND CHEMICAL DISORDER NEAR THE Y2BACUO5/YBA2CU3O7-DELTA INTERFACE AND ITS POSSIBLE RELATION TO THE FLUX-PINNING BEHAVIOR IN MELT-TEXTURED YBA2CU3O7-DELTA	PHYSICAL REVIEW B	Transmission-electron microscopy and energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy were used to study the microstructure of the YBa2Cu3O7-delta (1:2:3) region adjacent to the Y2BaCuO5/YBa2Cu3O7-delta (2:1:1/1:2:3) interface. It is found that there exists a high local density of stacking faults in 1:2:3, near the 2:1:1/1:2:3 interfaces. The stacking faults lie parallel to the (001) basal plane and are inhomogeneously distributed around the 2:1:1 particles. They tend to be disk shaped with diameters ranging from a few to approximately 30 nm. Calculations made using simple energy considerations suggest that these stacking faults may act as effective flux pinners for magnetic fields directed both parallel and perpendicular to the basal plane. They may account for the observed increase of J(c) with volume fraction of 2:1:1 and also explain the angular dependence of transport J(c) in melt-processed 1:2:3. An unusual tendency for the formation of facets on the incoherent, randomly oriented 2:1:1 particles parallel to the {001}-type planes in the 1:2:3 matrix was also observed. Microanalysis of the 1:2:3 region around the 2:1:1 particles, which contain few or no stacking faults, consistently shows an enrichment of Y and a corresponding depletion in Ba concentration. Such cation nonstoichiometry may result in the formation of numerous point defects, which could also result in pinning. The presence of ledges on some facets at the 2:1:1/1:2:3 interfaces and the observed compositional nonstoichiometry in the 1:2:3 phase in the vicinity of these interfaces suggest that 2:1:1 particles continue to change in size after entrapment in 1:2:3. The observed compositional variation is consistent with dissolution of trapped 2:1:1. Such diffusion effects and stresses due to he thermal and elastic mismatch between 2:1:1 and 1:2:3 provide mechanisms for generating the oberved defects aroung the 2:1:1 particles in the 1:2:3 matrix.
212	connectionism	1993	READ, SJ; MARCUSNEWHALL, A	EXPLANATORY COHERENCE IN SOCIAL EXPLANATIONS - A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING ACCOUNT	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	This article studies the impact of explanatory coherence on the evaluation of explanations. Tested were 4 principles of R Thagard's (1989) model for evaluating the coherence of explanations. Study 1 showed that Ss preferred explanations that accounted for more data (breadth) and that were simpler (simplicity or parsimony). Study 2 demonstrated that Ss thought an explanation was stronger when it could, in turn, be explained. Study 3 showed that the evaluation of explanations is comparative, affected by the availability of good alternatives. These results were then successfully simulated using Thagard's connectionist implementation of his model of explanatory coherence. The data and the simulation, taken together, strongly support the model. Two issues are then discussed: (a) the role of explanatory coherence in social explanation and (b) the relevance of parallel constraint satisfaction processes to social reasoning.
213	connectionism	1991	SHANKS, DR	CATEGORIZATION BY A CONNECTIONIST NETWORK	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	Three experiments tested a simple connectionist network approach to human categorization. The specific network considered consists of a layer of input nodes, each representing a feature of the exemplar to be categorized, connected in parallel to a layer of output nodes representing the categories. Learning to categorize exemplars consists of adjusting the weights in the network so as to increase the probability of making correct categorizations; weight changes are determined by the Rescorla-Wagner (1972) learning rule. The experiments used a simulated medical diagnosis procedure in which subjects have to decide which disease (the category) each of a series of patients is suffering from on the basis of the patients' symptoms (the features). After a series of trials, the subjects rated the extent to which particular symptoms were associated with particular diseases. In each of the experiments, it is shown that a process of selective learning occurs in this categorization task and that selection in turn depends on the relative predictiveness of the symptom for the disease. Such effects parallel results found in animal conditioning experiments and are readily reproduced by the connectionist network model. The results are also discussed in terms of a variety of traditional theories of categorization.
214	connectionism	2010	Mateos, G; Bazerque, JA; Giannakis, GB	Distributed Sparse Linear Regression	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING	The Lasso is a popular technique for joint estimation and continuous variable selection, especially well-suited for sparse and possibly under-determined linear regression problems. This paper develops algorithms to estimate the regression coefficients via Lasso when the training data are distributed across different agents, and their communication to a central processing unit is prohibited for e.g., communication cost or privacy reasons. A motivating application is explored in the context of wireless communications, whereby sensing cognitive radios collaborate to estimate the radio-frequency power spectrum density. Attaining different tradeoffs between complexity and convergence speed, three novel algorithms are obtained after reformulating the Lasso into a separable form, which is iteratively minimized using the alternating-direction method of multipliers so as to gain the desired degree of parallelization. Interestingly, the per agent estimate updates are given by simple soft-thresholding operations, and inter-agent communication overhead remains at affordable level. Without exchanging elements from the different training sets, the local estimates consent to the global Lasso solution, i.e., the fit that would be obtained if the entire data set were centrally available. Numerical experiments with both simulated and real data demonstrate the merits of the proposed distributed schemes, corroborating their convergence and global optimality. The ideas in this paper can be easily extended for the purpose of fitting related models in a distributed fashion, including the adaptive Lasso, elastic net, fused Lasso and nonnegative garrote.
215	connectionism	1999	Kornblum, S; Stevens, GT; Whipple, A; Requin, J	The effects of irrelevant stimuli: 1. The time course of stimulus-stimulus and stimulus-response consistency effects with Stroop-like stimuli, Simon-like tasks, and their factorial combinations	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The effects of Simon- and Stroop-like stimuli are examined in isolation and in factorial combinations with different delays between the presentation of the irrelevant and the relevant stimuli. The effects of irrelevant stimuli have different time courses depending on whether they overlap with the relevant stimulus (stimulus-stimulus overlap, Dimensional Overlap [DO] Type 4) or with the response (stimulus-response overlap, DO type 3). A new, computational, parallel distributed processing (PDP)-type model, DO'97, is presented that is based on the original DO model (S. Kornblum, 1994; S. Kornblum, T. Hasbroucq, Br A. Osman, 1990), and it postulates a nonmonotone irrelevant stimulus activation function in addition to 2 temporally ordered, serial, nonindependent stages: a stimulus processing stage and a response production stage. DO'97 is able to simulate the temporal dynamic characteristics of the processes, with good fits to the empirical data. of this study and other published studies, at the level of means, variances, and distributional plots.
216	connectionism	1995	HOF, PR; NIMCHINSKY, EA; MORRISON, JH	NEUROCHEMICAL PHENOTYPE OF CORTICOCORTICAL CONNECTIONS IN THE MACAQUE MONKEY - QUANTITATIVE-ANALYSIS OF A SUBSET OF NEUROFILAMENT PROTEIN-IMMUNOREACTIVE PROJECTION NEURONS IN FRONTAL, PARIETAL, TEMPORAL, AND CINGULATE CORTICES	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	The neurochemical characteristics of the neuronal subsets that furnish different types of corticocortical connections have been only partially determined. In recent years, several cytoskeletal proteins have emerged as reliable markers to distinguish subsets of pyramidal neurons in the cerebral cortex of primates. In particular, previous studies using an antibody to nonphosphorylated neurofilament protein (SMI-32) have revealed a consistent degree of regional and laminar specificity in the distribution of a subpopulation of pyramidal cells in the primate cerebral cortex. The density of neurofilament protein-immunoreactive neurons was shown to vary across corticocortical pathways in macaque monkeys. In the present study, we have used the antibody SMI-32 to examine further and to quantify the distribution of a subset of corticocortically projecting neurons in a series of long ipsilateral corticocortical pathways in comparison to short corticocortical, commissural, and limbic connections. The results demonstrate that the long association pathways interconnecting the frontal, parietal, and temporal neocortex have a high representation of neurofilament protein-enriched pyramidal neurons (45-90%), whereas short corticocortical, callosal, and limbic pathways are characterized by much lower numbers of such neurons (4-35%). These data suggest that different types of corticocortical connections have differential representation of highly specific neuronal subsets that share common neurochemical characteristics, thereby determining regional and laminar cortical patterns of morphological and molecular heterogeneity. These differences in neuronal neurochemical phenotype among corticocortical circuits may have considerable influence on cortical processing and may be directly related to the type of integrative function subserved by each cortical pathway. Finally, it is worth noting that neurofilament protein-immunoreactive neurons are dramatically affected in the course of Alzheimer's disease. The present results support the hypothesis that neurofilament protein may be crucially linked to the development of selective neuronal vulnerability and subsequent disruption of corticocortical pathways that lead to the severe impairment of cognitive function commonly observed in age-related dementing disorders. (C) 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
217	connectionism	2001	Bohm, KJ; Stracke, R; Muhlig, P; Unger, E	Motor protein-driven unidirectional transport of micrometer-sized cargoes across isopolar microtubule arrays	NANOTECHNOLOGY	Conventional kinesin is a motor protein which translocates organelles from cell centre to cell periphery along specialized filamentous tracks, called microtubules. The direction of translocation is determined by microtubule polarity. This process of biological force generation can be simulated outside cells with kinesin-coated particles actively moving along immobilized microtubules. The in vitro approaches of kinesin-mediated transport described so far had the disadvantage that concerning their polarity the microtubules were randomly distributed resulting in random transport direction. The present paper demonstrates the unidirectional translocation of kinesin-coated cargoes across arrays of microtubules aligned not only in a geometrically parallel but also in an isopolar fashion. As cargo, glass, gold, and polystyrene beads with diameters between 1 and 10 mum were used. Independent of material and size, these beads were observed to move unidirectionally with average velocities of 0.3-1.0 mum s(-1) over distances up to 2.2 mm. Moreover, the isopolar microtubule arrays even enabled the transport of large flat glass particles with an area of up to 24 mum x 12 mum and 2-5 mum thickness which obviously contacted more than one microtubule. The controlling transport direction is considered to be an essential step for future developments of motor protein-based microdevices working in nanometre steps.
218	connectionism	1999	Reuther, JJ; Jameson, A; Alonso, JJ; Rimlinger, MJ; Saunders, D	Constrained multipoint aerodynamic shape optimization using an adjoint formulation and parallel computers, part 1	JOURNAL OF AIRCRAFT	This paper is the first of a two-paper series (Reuther, J. J,, Jameson, A., Alonso, J, J., Rimlinger, M, J,, and Saunders, D,, ("Constrained Multipoint Aerodynamic Shape Optimization Using an Adjoint Formulation and Parallel Computers, Part 2," Journal of Aircraft, Vol, 36, No, 1, 1999, pp, 61-74), that describes a shape optimization method for aerodynamic design problems invoking complex aircraft configurations and multiple design points that are subject to geometric constraints. The aerodynamic performance is evaluated using a set of high-fidelity governing equations discretized on body-conforming multiblock meshes. The design process is greatly accelerated through the use of an adjoint method for the calculation of sensitivity information and by means of a parallel implementation for distributed memory computers. This paper focuses on the details of the development and implementation of the complete design algorithm. A general adjoint formulation of the design optimization problem is presented along with a detailed derivation of the adjoint system for the Euler equations. The multiblock approach for the now and adjoint solution algorithm and the mesh perturbation procedure are described. The extension of this approach to treat multipoint and constrained shape optimization of complete aircraft configurations is also discussed. Finally, the details of the parallel implementation are examined.
219	connectionism	2001	Fasshauer, M; Klein, J; Kriauciunas, KM; Ueki, K; Benito, M; Kahn, CR	Essential role of insulin receptor substrate 1 in differentiation of brown adipocytes	MOLECULAR AND CELLULAR BIOLOGY	The most widely distributed members of the family of insulin receptor substrate (IRS) proteins are IRS-1 and IRS-2. These proteins participate in insulin and insulin-like growth factor 1 signaling, as well as the actions of some cytokines, growth hormone, and prolactin, To more precisely define the specific role of IRS-1 in adipocyte biology, we established brown adipocyte cell lines from wild-type and IRS-1 knockout (KO) animals. Using differentiation protocols, both with and without insulin, preadipocyte cell lines derived from IRS-1 KO mice exhibited a marked decrease in differentiation and lipid accumulation (10 to 40%) compared to wild-type cells (90 to 100%). Furthermore, IRS-1 KO cells showed decreased expression of adipogenic marker proteins, such as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR gamma), CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (C/EBP alpha), fatty acid synthase, uncoupling protein-1, and glucose transporter 4, The differentiation deficit in the KO cells could be reversed almost completely by retrovirus-mediated reexpression of IRS-1, PPAR gamma, or C/EBP alpha but not the thiazolidinedione troglitazone, Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) assays performed at various stages of the differentiation process revealed a strong and transient activation in IRS-1, IRS-2, and phosphotyrosine-associated PI 3-kinase in the wild-type cells, whereas the IRS-1 KO cells showed impaired phosphotyrosine-associated PI 3-kinase activation, all of which was associated with IRS3. Akt phosphorylation was reduced in parallel with the total PI 3-kinase activity. Inhibition of PI 3-kinase with LY294002 blocked differentiation of mild-type cells, Thus, IRS-1 appears to be an important mediator of brown adipocyte maturation. Furthermore, this signaling molecule appears to exert its unique role in the differentiation process via activation of PI 3-kinase and its downstream target, Akt, and is upstream of the effects of PPAR gamma and C/EBP alpha.
220	connectionism	2001	Raasch, S; Schroter, M	PALM - A large-eddy simulation model performing on massively parallel computers	METEOROLOGISCHE ZEITSCHRIFT	An existing code of a large-eddy simulation (LES) model for the study of turbulent processes in the atmospheric and oceanic boundary layer has been completely recoded for use on massively parallel systems with distributed memory. Parallelization is achieved by two-dimensional domain decomposition and communication is realized by the message passing interface (MPI). Periodic boundary conditions, which are used in both horizontal directions, helped to minimize the parallelization effort. The performance of the new PArallelized LES Model (PALM) is excellent on SGI/Cray-T3E systems and an almost linear speed-up is achieved up to very large numbers of processors. Parallelization strategy and model performance is discussed and validation experiments as well as future applications are presented.
221	connectionism	1992	FETZ, EE	ARE MOVEMENT PARAMETERS RECOGNIZABLY CODED IN THE ACTIVITY OF SINGLE NEURONS	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	To investigate neural mechanisms of movement, physiologists have analyzed the activity of task-related neurons in behaving animals. The relative onset latencies of neural activity have been scrutinized for evidence of a functional hierarchy of sequentially recruited centers, but experiments reveal that activity changes occur largely in parallel. Neurons whose activity covaries with movement parameters have been sought for evidence of explicit coding of parameters such as active force, limb displacement, and behavioral set. Neurons with recognizable relations to the task are typically selected from a larger population, ignoring those cells with complex relations to the task and unmodulated cells. Selective interpretations are also used to support the notion that different motor regions perform different motor functions, again, current evidence suggests that units with similar properties are distributed over widely different regions. These coding issues are reexamined for premotoneuronal (Pre M) cells, whose correlational links with motoneurons are revealed by spike-triggered averages. Pre M cells are recruited over long times relative to their target muscles, they show diverse response patterns relative to the muscle force they produce, functionally disparate PreM cells such as afferent fibers and descending corticomotoneuronal and rubromotoneuronal cells can exhibit similar patterns. Neural mechanisms have been further elucidated by neural network simulations of sensorimotor behavior, the pre-output hidden units typically show diverse response patterns in relation to their target units. Thus, studies in which both the activity and the connectivity of the same units are known reveal that units with both simple and complex relations to the task contribute significantly to the output. This suggests that the search for explicit coding may be diverting us from understanding distributed neural mechanisms that operate without literal representations.
222	connectionism	2007	Hulme, SE; Shevkoplyas, SS; Apfeld, J; Fontana, W; Whitesides, GM	A microfabricated array of clamps for immobilizing and imaging C-elegans	LAB ON A CHIP	This paper describes the fabrication of a microfluidic device for rapid immobilization of large numbers of live C. elegans for performing morphological analysis, microsurgery, and fluorescence imaging in a high-throughput manner. The device consists of two principal elements: (i) an array of 128 wedge-shaped microchannels, or clamps, which physically immobilize worms, and (ii) a branching network of distribution channels, which deliver worms to the array. The flow of liquid through the device (driven by a constant pressure difference between the inlet and the outlet) automatically distributes individual worms into each clamp. It was possible to immobilize more than 100 worms in less than 15 min. The immobilization process was not damaging to the worms: following removal from the array of clamps, worms lived typical lifespans and reproduced normally. The ability to monitor large numbers of immobilized worms easily and in parallel will enable researchers to investigate physiology and behavior in large populations of C. elegans.
223	connectionism	2006	Plaza, A; Valencia, D; Plaza, J; Martinez, P	Commodity cluster-based parallel processing of hyperspectral imagery	JOURNAL OF PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING	The rapid development of space and computer technologies has made possible to store a large amount of remotely sensed image data, collected from heterogeneous sources. In particular, NASA is continuously gathering imagery data with hyperspectral Earth observing sensors such as the Airborne Visible-Infrared Imaging Spectrometer (AVIRIS) or the Hyperion imager aboard Earth Observing-1 (EO-1) spacecraft. The development of fast techniques for transforming the massive amount of collected data into scientific understanding is critical for space-based Earth science and planetary exploration. This paper describes commodity cluster-based parallel data analysis strategies for hyperspectral imagery, a new class of image data that comprises hundreds of spectral bands at different wavelength channels for the same area on the surface of the Earth. An unsupervised technique that integrates the spatial and spectral information in the image data using multi-channel morphological transformations is parallelized and compared to other available parallel algorithms. The code's portability, reusability and scalability are illustrated by using two high-performance parallel computing architectures: a distributed memory, multiple instruction multiple data (MIMD)-style multicomputer at European Center for Parallelism of Barcelona, and a Beowulf cluster at NASA!s Goddard Space Flight Center. Experimental results suggest that Beowulf clusters are a source of computational power that is both accessible and applicable to obtaining results in valid response times in information extraction applications from hyperspectral imagery. (C) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
224	connectionism	2008	Lammel, R	Google's MapReduce programming model - Revisited	SCIENCE OF COMPUTER PROGRAMMING	Google's MapReduce programming model serves for processing large data sets in a massively parallel manner. We deliver the first rigorous description of the model including its advancement as Google's domain-specific language Sawzall. To this end, we reverse-engineer the seminal papers on MapReduce and Sawzall, and we capture our findings as an executable specification. We also identify and resolve some obscurities in the informal presentation given in the seminal papers. We use typed functional programming (specifically Haskell) as a tool for design recovery and executable specification. Our development comprises three components: (i) the basic program skeleton that underlies MapReduce computations; (ii) the opportunities for parallelism in executing MapReduce computations; (iii) the fundamental characteristics of Sawzall's aggregators as an advancement of the MapReduce approach. Our development does not formalize the more implementational aspects of an actual, distributed execution of MapReduce computations. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
225	connectionism	1999	Baroni, P; Lamperti, G; Pogliano, P; Zanella, M	Diagnosis of large active systems	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	This paper presents a modular technique, amenable to parallel implementation, for the diagnosis of large-scale, distributed, asynchronous event-driven (namely, active) systems. An active system is an abstraction of a physical system that can be modeled as a network of communicating automata. Due to the distributed nature of the class of systems considered, and unlike other approaches based on synchronous composition of automata, exchanged events are buffered within communication links and dealt with asynchronously. The main goal of the diagnostic technique is the reconstruction of the behavior of the active system starting from a set of observable events. The diagnostic process involves three steps: interpretation, merging, and diagnosis generation. Interpretation generates a representation of the behavior of a part of the active system based on observable events. Merging combines the result of several interpretations into a new, broader interpretation. The eventual diagnostic information is generated on the basis of fault events possibly incorporated within the reconstructed behavior. In contrast with other approaches, the proposed technique does not require the generation of the, possibly huge, model of the entire system, typically, in order to yield a global diagnoser, but rather, it allows a modular and parallel exploitation of the reconstruction process. This property, to a large extent, makes effective the diagnosis of real active systems, for which the reconstruction of the global behavior is often unnecessary, if not impossible. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
226	connectionism	1997	Kloster, M; Hansen, A; Hemmer, PC	Burst avalanches in solvable models of fibrous materials	PHYSICAL REVIEW E	We review limiting models for fracture in bundles of fibers, with statistically distributed thresholds for breakdown of individual fibers. During the breakdown process, avalanches consisting of simultaneous rupture of several fibers occur, and the distribution D(Delta) of the magnitude Delta of such avalanches is the central characteristic in our analysis. For a bundle of parallel fibers two limiting models of load sharing are studied and contrasted: the global model, in which the load carried by a bursting fiber is equally distributed among the surviving members; and the local model, in which the nearest surviving neighbors take up the load. For the global model we investigate in particular the conditions on the threshold distribution which would lead to anomalous behavior, i.e., deviations from the asymptotics D(Delta) similar to Delta(-5/2), known to be the generic behavior. For the local model no universal power-law asymptotics exists, but we show for a particular threshold distribution how the avalanche distribution can nevertheless be explicitly calculated in the large-bundle limit.
227	connectionism	1995	BULLIER, J; NOWAK, LG	PARALLEL VERSUS SERIAL PROCESSING - NEW VISTAS ON THE DISTRIBUTED ORGANIZATION OF THE VISUAL-SYSTEM	CURRENT OPINION IN NEUROBIOLOGY	Recent functional studies question the validity of the hierarchical model of organization for processing visual information in cortical areas. The results of these studies suggest that beyond the primary visual cortex (V1), information is not serially processed through successive cortical areas, but that it is simultaneously processed in several areas. The idea that visual information is functionally segregated into different, parallel channels as it circulates through V1 and V2 towards V4 and the middle temporal visual area is also challenged by recent studies that report a smaller degree of functional specialization within the visual areas than previously thought.
228	connectionism	2003	Pins, D; ffytche, D	The neural correlates of conscious vision	CEREBRAL CORTEX	Conflicting accounts of the neurobiology of consciousness have emerged from previous imaging studies. Some studies suggest that visual consciousness relates to a distributed network of frontal and partietal regions while others point to localized activity within individual visual areas. While the two positions seem mutually exclusive, timing issues may help reconcile the two. Networks that appear unified in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies may reflect processes that are widely distributed in time. To help resolve this issue, we have investigated timing across a network correlating with consciousness in parallel fMRI and evoked potential (EP) studies of grating stimuli. At threshold, a stimulus is perceived on some occasions but not on others, dissociating sensory input and perception. We have found correlates of consciousness in the occipital lobe at 100 ms and in parietal, frontal, auditory and motor regions from 260 ms onwards. The broad temporal and spatial distribution of activity argues against a unified, distributed fronto-parietal correlate of consciousness. Instead, it suggests that correlates of consciousness are divided into primary and secondary network nodes, with early activity in the occipital lobe correlating with perception and later activity in downstream areas with secondary processes contingent on the outcome of earlier perceptual processing.
229	connectionism	1997	Escartin, J; Hirth, G; Evans, B	Nondilatant brittle deformation of serpentinites: Implications for Mohr-Coulomb theory and the strength of faults	JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-SOLID EARTH	We conducted deformation experiments to investigate the strength, deformation processes, and nature of the brittle-ductile transition of lizardite and antigorite serpentinites. A transition from localized to distributed deformation occurs as confining pressure increases from similar to 200 to similar to 400 MPa at room temperature. Deformation in both brittle (localized) and ductile (distributed) regimes is accommodated by shear microcracks, which form preferentially parallel to the (001) cleavage. Axial microcracks (mode I) are infrequently observed. Volumetric strain measurements demonstrate that brittle deformation is mostly nondilatant, consistent with the shear-dominated microcracking. Three observations indicate that deformation in the ductile regime is accommodated by cataclastic flow: (1) a lack of evidence for crystal plastic deformation, (2) a positive pressure dependence of the maximum differential stress, and (3) abundant evidence for brittle microcracking. The weakness of serpentinites relative to other brittle rocks is explained by a low fracture strength along the (001) cleavage, combined with the low pressure dependence of strength. The transition from brittle to ductile deformation occurs at the crossover between the strength of intact serpentinite and the friction law unique to each type of serpentinite, rather than the more general Byerlee's law. If brittle deformation regimes are defined based on the mode of microcracking and on the occurrence of crystal plasticity, serpentinites define an end-member style of nondilatant brittle deformation. This deformation style may result in extremely weak faults in nature, and it may also strongly influence the tectonic evolution of the oceanic lithosphere where serpentinite is present.
230	connectionism	1995	DONY, RD; HAYKIN, S	NEURAL-NETWORK APPROACHES TO IMAGE COMPRESSION	PROCEEDINGS OF THE IEEE	This paper presents a tutorial overview of neural networks as signal processing tools for image compression. They are well suited to the problem of image compression due to their massively parallel and distributed architecture. Their characteristics are analogous to some of the features of our own visual system, which allow us to process visual information with much ease. For example, multilayer perceptions can be used as nonlinear predictors in differential pulse-code modulation (DPCM). Such predictors have been shown to increase the predictive gain relative to a linear predictor. Another active area of research is in the application of Hebbian learning to the extraction of principal components, which are the basis vectors for the optimal linear Karhunen-Loeve transform (KLT). These learning algorithms are iterative, have some computational advantages over standard eigendecomposition techniques, and can be made to adapt to changes in the input signal. Yet another model, the self-organizing feature map (SOFM), has been used with a great deal of success in the design of codebooks for vector quantization (VQ). The resulting codebooks are less sensitive to initial conditions than the standard LBG algorithm, and the topological ordering of the entries can be exploited to further increasing coding efficiency and reduce computational complexity.
231	connectionism	1999	Li, X; Habbal, SR; Hollweg, JV; Esser, R	Heating and cooling of protons by turbulence-driven ion cyclotron waves in the fast solar wind	JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-SPACE PHYSICS	The effects of parallel propagating nondispersive ion cyclotron waves on the solar wind plasma are investigated in an attempt to reproduce the observed proton temperature anisotropy, namely, T-p perpendicular to >> T-p parallel to in the inner corona and T-p perpendicular to < T-p parallel to at 1 AU. Low-frequency Alfven waves are assumed to carry most of the energy needed to accelerate and heat the fast solar wind. The model calculations presented here assume that nonlinear cascade processes, at the Kolmogorov and Kraichnan dissipation rates, transport energy from low-frequency Alfven waves to the ion cyclotron resonant range. The energy is then picked up by the plasma through the resonant cyclotron interaction. While the resonant interaction determines how the heat is distributed between the parallel and perpendicular degrees of freedom, the level of turbulence determines the net dissipation. Ion cyclotron waves are found to produce a significant temperature anisotropy starting in the inner corona, and to limit the growth of the temperature anisotropy in interplanetary space. In addition, this mechanism heats or cools protons in the direction parallel to the magnetic field. While cooling in the parallel direction is dominant, heating in the parallel direction occurs when T-p perpendicular to >> T-p parallel to. The waves provide the mechanism for the extraction of energy from the parallel direction to feed into the perpendicular direction. In our models, both Kolmogorov and Kraichnan dissipation rates yield T-p perpendicular to >> T-p parallel to in the corona, in agreement with inferences from recent ultraviolet coronal measurements, and predict temperatures at 1 AU which match in situ observations. The models also reproduce the inferred rapid acceleration of the fast solar wind in the inner corona and flow speeds and particle fluxes measured at 1 AU. Since this mechanism does not provide direct energy to the electrons, and the electron-proton coupling is not sufficient to heat the electrons to temperatures at or above 10(6) K, this model yields electron temperatures which are much cooler than those currently inferred fram observations.
232	connectionism	1992	HEIL, P; RAJAN, R; IRVINE, DRF	SENSITIVITY OF NEURONS IN CAT PRIMARY AUDITORY-CORTEX TO TONES AND FREQUENCY-MODULATED STIMULI .2. ORGANIZATION OF RESPONSE PROPERTIES ALONG THE ISOFREQUENCY DIMENSION	HEARING RESEARCH	The spatial distribution of neuronal responses to tones and frequency-modulated (FM) stimuli was mapped along the 'isofrequency' dimension of the primary auditory cortex (AI) of barbiturate-anesthetized cats. In each cat, electrode penetrations roughly orthogonal to the cortical surface were closely spaced (average separation almost-equal-to 130 mum) along the dorsoventral extent of a single 'isofrequency' strip in high frequency parts of AI ( > 15 kHz). Characteristic frequency (CF), minimum threshold, sharpness of frequency tuning (Q10 and Q20), the dynamic range of the spike count-intensity function at CF, sensitivity to the rate of change of frequency (RCF) and to the direction of frequency-modulation (DS) were determined for contralaterally-presented tone and FM stimuli. Sharpness of tuning attained maximum values at central loci along the dorsoventral 'isofrequency' axis and values declined towards more dorsal and more ventral locations. Minimum threshold and dynamic range varied between high and low values in a similar and correlated periodic fashion. Their combined organization yielded an orderly spatial representation of response strength, relative to maximum, as a function of stimulus amplitude. The distributions of the most common forms of FM rate sensitivity (RCF response categories) and best RCF along 'isofrequency' strips were significantly non-random although there was a considerable degree of variability between cats. FM directional preference and sensitivity appeared to be randomly distributed. Sharpness of tuning may be related to the analysis of the spectral content of an acoustic stimulus, both minimum threshold and dynamic range are related to the encoding of stimulus intensity, and measures of FM rate and directional sensitivity assess the coding of temporal changes of stimulus spectra. The independent, or for minimum threshold and dynamic range dependent, topographic organizations of these neuronal parameters therefore suggest parallel and independent processing of these aspects of acoustic signals, in AI.
233	connectionism	2001	Patterson, K; Ralph, MAL; Hodges, JR; McClelland, JL	Deficits in irregular past-tense verb morphology associated with degraded semantic knowledge	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Two distinct mechanisms are often considered necessary to account for generation of the past-tense of English verbs: a lexical associative process For irregular forms like speak --> spoke, and a rule-governed process ('add -ed') for regular and novel forms like talk --> talked and wug --> wugged. An alternative account based on a parallel-distributed processing approach proposes that one complex procedure processes all past-tense types. In this alternative view, neuropsychological dissociations are explained by reduced input from word meaning that plays a greater role in successful generation of the past-tense for lower frequency irregular verbs, and by phonological deficits that disproportionately affect regular and novel forms. Only limited evidence has been available concerning the relationship between knowledge of word meaning and verb-tense processing. The study reported here evaluated the past-tense verb abilities of ii patients with semantic dementia, a neurodegenerative condition characterised by degraded semantic knowledge. We predicted and confirmed that the patients would have essentially normal ability to generate and recognise regular land novel past-tense Forms, bur a marked and frequency-modulated deficit on irregular verbs. Across the set of 11 patients, the degree of impairment for the irregular past-tense was significantly correlated with the degree of comprehension impairment as measured by verb synonym judgements. These results. plus other features of the data such as the nature of the errors to irregular verbs, are discussed in relation to currently developing theories of the language system. (C) 2001 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.
234	connectionism	2011	Brown, WM; Wang, P; Plimpton, SJ; Tharrington, AN	Implementing molecular dynamics on hybrid high performance computers - short range forces	COMPUTER PHYSICS COMMUNICATIONS	The use of accelerators such as graphics processing units (GPUs) has become popular in scientific computing applications due to their low cost, impressive floating-point capabilities, high memory bandwidth, and low electrical power requirements. Hybrid high-performance computers, machines with more than one type of floating-point processor, are now becoming more prevalent due to these advantages. In this work, we discuss several important issues in porting a large molecular dynamics code for use on parallel hybrid machines - (1) choosing a hybrid parallel decomposition that works on central processing units (CPUs) with distributed memory and accelerator cores with shared memory, (2) minimizing the amount of code that must be ported for efficient acceleration, (3) utilizing the available processing power from both multi-core CPUs and accelerators, and (4) choosing a programming model for acceleration. We present our solution to each of these issues for short-range force calculation in the molecular dynamics package LAMMPS, however, the methods can be applied in many molecular dynamics codes. Specifically, we describe algorithms for efficient short range force calculation on hybrid high-performance machines. We describe an approach for dynamic load balancing of work between CPU and accelerator cores. We describe the Geryon library that allows a single code to compile with both CUDA and OpenCL for use on a variety of accelerators. Finally, we present results on a parallel test cluster containing 32 Fermi GPUs and 180 CPU cores. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
235	connectionism	2003	Van Veldhuizen, DA; Zydallis, JB; Lamont, GB	Considerations in engineering parallel multiobjective evolutionary algorithms	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION	Developing multiobjective evolutionary algorithms (MOEAs) involves thoroughly addressing the issues of efficiency and effectiveness. Once convinced of an MOEA's effectiveness the researcher often desires to reduce execution time and/or resource expenditure, which naturally leads to considering the MOEA's parallelization. Parallel MOEAs (pMOEAs) or distributed MOEAs are relatively new developments with few associated publications. pMOEA creation is not a simple task, involving analyzing various parallel paradigms and associated parameters. Thus, a thorough discussion of the major parallelized MOEA paradigms is included in this paper and succinct observations are made regarding an analysis of the current literature. Specifically, a previous MOEA notation is extended into the pMOEA domain to enable precise description and identification of various sets of interest. Innovative concepts for pMOEA migration, replacement and niching schemes are discussed, as well as presenting the first known generic pMOEA formulation. Taken together, this paper's analyses in conjunction with an original pMOEA design serve as a pedagogical framework and example of the necessary process to implement an efficient and effective pMOEA. Interspersed throughout the paper are various methods for creating and evaluating pMOEA implementations for those interested in extending the field's knowledge through further research. This aids the community in not only achieving a fuller understanding of parallelized MOEAs, but also identifying appropriate contexts for comparing their performance.
236	connectionism	1999	Zhang, HZH; Zhang, J; Kornblum, S	A parallel distributed processing model of stimulus-stimulus and stimulus-response compatibility	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	A parallel distributed processing (PDP) model is proposed to account for choice reaction time (RT) performance in diverse cognitive and perceptual tasks such as the Stroop task, the Simon task, the Eriksen flanker task, and the stimulus-response compatibility task that are interrelated in terms of stimulus-stimulus and stimulus-response overlap (Kornblum, 1992). In multilayered;(input-intermediate-output) networks, neuron-like nodes that represent stimulus and response features are grouped into mutually inhibitory modules that represent stimulus and response dimensions. The stimulus-stimulus overlap is implemented by a convergence of two input modules onto a common intermediate module, and the stimulus-response overlap by direct pathways representing automatic priming of outputs. Mean RTs are simulated in various simple tasks and, furthermore, predictions are generated for complex tasks based on performance in simpler tasks. The match between simulated and experimental results lends strong support for our PDP model of compatibility. (C) 1999 Academic Press.
237	connectionism	1994	SUNDERAM, VS; GEIST, GA; DONGARRA, J; MANCHEK, R	THE PVM CONCURRENT COMPUTING SYSTEM - EVOLUTION, EXPERIENCES, AND TRENDS	PARALLEL COMPUTING	The PVM system, a software framework for heterogeneous concurrent computing in networked environments, has evolved in the past several years into a viable technology for distributed and parallel processing in a variety of disciplines. PVM supports a straightforward but functionally complete message passing model, and is capable of harnessing the combined resources of typically heterogeneous networked computing platforms to deliver high levels of performance and functionality. In this paper, we describe the architecture of PVM system, and discuss its computing model, the programming interface it supports, auxiliary facilities for process groups and MPP support, and some of the internal implementation techniques employed. Performance issues, dealing primarily with communication overheads, are analyzed, and recent findings as well as experimental enhancements are presented. In order to demonstrate the viability of PVM for large scale scientific supercomputing, the paper includes representative case studies in materials science, environmental science, and climate modeling. We conclude with a discussion of related projects and future directions, and comment on near and long-term potential for network computing with the PVM system.
238	connectionism	2012	Murchison, EP; Schulz-Trieglaff, OB; Ning, ZM; Alexandrov, LB; Bauer, MJ; Fu, BY; Hims, M; Ding, ZH; Ivakhno, S; Stewart, C; Ng, BL; Wong, WD; Aken, B; White, S; Alsop, A; Becq, J; Bignell, GR; Cheetham, RK; Cheng, W; Connor, TR; Cox, AJ; Feng, ZP; Gu, Y; Grocock, RJ; Harris, SR; Khrebtukova, I; Kingsbury, Z; Kowarsky, M; Kreiss, A; Luo, SJ; Marshall, J; McBride, DJ; Murray, L; Pearse, AM; Raine, K; Rasolonjatovo, I; Shaw, R; Tedder, P; Tregidgo, C; Vilella, AJ; Wedge, DC; Woods, GM; Gormley, N; Humphray, S; Schroth, G; Smith, G; Hall, K; Searle, SMJ; Carter, NP; Papenfuss, AT; Futreal, PA; Campbell, PJ; Yang, FT; Bentley, DR; Evers, DJ; Stratton, MR	Genome Sequencing and Analysis of the Tasmanian Devil and Its Transmissible Cancer	CELL	The Tasmanian devil (Sarcophilus harrisii), the largest marsupial carnivore, is endangered due to a transmissible facial cancer spread by direct transfer of living cancer cells through biting. Here we describe the sequencing, assembly, and annotation of the Tasmanian devil genome and whole-genome sequences for two geographically distant subclones of the cancer. Genomic analysis suggests that the cancer first arose from a female Tasmanian devil and that the clone has subsequently genetically diverged during its spread across Tasmania. The devil cancer genome contains more than 17,000 somatic base substitution mutations and bears the imprint of a distinct mutational process. Genotyping of somatic mutations in 104 geographically and temporally distributed Tasmanian devil tumors reveals the pattern of evolution and spread of this parasitic clonal lineage, with evidence of a selective sweep in one geographical area and persistence of parallel lineages in other populations.
239	connectionism	2008	Zhu, HY; Kee, RJ	Modeling distributed charge-transfer processes in SOFC membrane electrode assemblies	JOURNAL OF THE ELECTROCHEMICAL SOCIETY	A model is developed to represent chemistry and transport in porous mixed ionic-and-electronic conducting composite electrode structures in solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC). The model considers the coupled behavior of a full membrane electrode assembly (MEA, i. e., cathode, electrolyte, and anode), which is an important advance compared to earlier models that consider only a single electrode structure. Within each electrode the model represents parallel conduction of electrons and ions, as well as porous-media, chemically reacting gas transport. The model predicts electric-potential distributions in both phases. Charge-transfer chemistry is handled via a modified Butler-Volmer formalism, which depends on the local electric-potential difference between phases. Heterogeneous chemistry (e. g., reforming or partial oxidation) is handled via a detailed surface-reaction mechanism. For typical composite-electrode structures the charge-transfer region extends about 10-20 mu m from the dense electrolyte. The results show cell performance depends upon particle sizes within the porous electrodes. Smaller particles generally improve cell performance as a result of expanded three-phase-boundary length. However, smaller particle sizes impede gas transport. Cell performance can be optimized as a function of functional-layer thickness and particle sizes. A distributed charge-transfer formulation is especially important in advanced thin-film electrode structures (e.g., segmented-in-series architectures) where the entire MEA is only a few tens of micrometers thick. The model is formulated as continuum differential equations, which are solved computationally on a discrete mesh network. The paper illustrates the model with examples comparing alternative MEA structures. (c) 2008 The Electrochemical Society.
240	connectionism	2005	Freeman, AW	Multistage model for binocular rivalry	JOURNAL OF NEUROPHYSIOLOGY	Binocular rivalry is the alternating perception that occurs when incompatible stimuli are presented to the two eyes: one monocular stimulus dominates vision and then the other stimulus dominates, with a perceptual switch occurring every few seconds. There is a need for a binocular rivalry model that accounts for both well- established results on the timing of dominance intervals and for more recent evidence on the distributed neural processing of rivalry. The model for binocular rivalry developed here consists of four parallel visual channels, two driven by the left eye and two by the right. Each channel consists of several consecutive processing stages representing successively higher cortical levels, with mutual inhibition between the channels at each stage. All stages are architecturally identical. With n the number of stages, the model is implemented as 4n nonlinear differential equations using a total of eight parameters. Despite the simplicity of its architecture, the model accounts for a variety of experimental observations: 1) the increasing depth of rivalry at higher cortical areas, as shown in electrophysiological, imaging, and psychophysical experiments; 2) the unimodal probability density of dominance durations, where the mode is less than the mean; 3) the lack of correlation between successive dominance durations; 4) the effect of interocular stimulus differences on dominance duration; and 5) eye suppression, as opposed to feature suppression. The model is potentially applicable to issues of visual processing more general than binocular rivalry.
241	connectionism	2003	Gritti, I; Manns, ID; Mainville, L; Jones, BE	Parvalbumin, calbindin, or calretinin in cortically projecting and GABAergic, cholinergic, or glutamatergic basal forebrain neurons of the rat	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	The basal forebrain (BF) plays an important role in modulating cortical activity and facilitating processes of attention, learning, and memory. This role is subserved by cholinergic neurons but also requires the participation of other noncholinergic neurons. Noncholinergic neurons include gamma-amino butyric acidergic (GABAergic) neurons, some of which project in parallel with the cholinergic cells to the cerebral cortex, others of which project caudally or locally. With the original aim of distinguishing different subgroups of GABAergic neurons, we examined immunostaining for the calcium binding proteins (CBPs) parvalbumin (Parv), calbindin (Calb), and calretinin (Calret) in the rat. Although the CBP+ cell groups were distributed in a coextensive manner with the GABAergic cells, they were collectively more numerous. Of cells retrogradely labeled with cholera toxin (CT) from the prefrontal or parietal cortex, Parv(+) and Calb(+) cells, but not Calret(+) cells, represented substantial proportions (similar to35-45% each) that collectively were greater than that of GABAergic projection neurons. From dual immunostaining for the CBPs and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), it appeared that the vast majority (>90%) of the Parv(+) group was GAD(+), whereas only a small minority (<10%) of the Calb(+) or Calret(+) group was GAD(+). Significant proportions of Calb(+) (>40%) and Calret+ (>80%) neurons were immunopositive for phosphate-activated glutaminase, the synthetic enzyme for transmitter glutamate. The results suggested that, whereas Calret(+) cells predominantly comprise caudally or locally projecting, possibly glutamatergic BF neurons, Parv(+) cells likely comprise the cortically projecting GABAergic BF neurons and Calb(+) cells the cortically projecting, possibly glutamatergic BF neurons that would collectively participate with the cholinergic cells in the modulation of cortical activity.
242	connectionism	1996	Nieplocha, J; Harrison, RJ; Littlefield, RJ	Global arrays: A nonuniform memory access programming model for high-performance computers	JOURNAL OF SUPERCOMPUTING	Portability efficiency, and ease of coding are all important considerations in choosing the programming model for a scalable parallel application. The message-passing programming model is widely used because of its portability, yet some applications are too complex to code in it while also trying to maintain a balanced computation load and avoid redundant computations. The shared-memory programming model simplifies coding, but it is not portable and often provides little control over interprocessor data transfer costs. This paper describes an approach, called Global Arrays (GAs), that combines the better features of both other models, leading to both simple coding and efficient execution. The key concept of GAs is that they provide a portable interface through which each process in a MIMD parallel program can asynchronously access logical blocks of physically distributed matrices, with no need for explicit cooperation by other processes. We have implemented the GA library on a variety of computer systems, including the Intel Delta and Paragon, the IBM SP-1 and SP-2 (all message passers), the Kendall Square Research KSR-1/2 and the Convex SPP-1200 (nonuniform access shared-memory machines), the GRAY T3D (a globally addressable distributed-memory computer), and networks of UNIX workstations. We discuss the design and implementation of these libraries, report their performance, illustrate the use of GAs in the context of computational chemistry applications, and describe the use of a GA performance Visualization tool.
243	connectionism	1997	DominguezCastro, R; Espejo, S; RodriguezVazquez, A; Carmona, RA; Foldesy, P; Zarandy, A; Szolgay, P; Sziranyi, T; Roska, T	A 0.8-mu m CMOS two-dimensional programmable mixed-signal focal-plane array processor with on-chip binary imaging and instructions storage	IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS	This paper presents a CMOS chip for the parallel acquisition and concurrent analog processing of two-dimensional (2-D) binary images. Its processing function is determined by a reduced set of 19 analog coefficients whose values are programmable with 7-b accuracy. The internal programming signals are analog, but the external control interface is fully digital. On-chip nonlinear digital-to-analog converters (DAC's) map digitally coded weight values into analog control signals, using feedback to predistort their transfer characteristics in accordance to the response of the analog programming circuitry. This strategy cancels out the nonlinear dependence of the analog circuitry with the programming signal and reduces the influence of interchip technological parameters random fluctuations. The chip includes a small digital RAM memory to store eight sets of processing parameters in the periphery of the cell array and four 2-D binary images spatially distributed over the processing array. It also includes the necessary control circuitry to realize the stored instructions in any order and also to realize programmable logic operations among images. The chip architecture is based on the cellular neural/nonlinear network universal machine (CNN-UM). It has been fabricated in a 0.8-mu m single-poly double-metal technology and features 2-mu s operation speed (time required to process an image) and around 7-b accuracy in the analog processing operations.
244	connectionism	2008	Belwalkar, A; Grasing, E; Van Geertruyden, W; Huang, Z; Misiolek, WZ	Effect of processing parameters on pore structure and thickness of anodic aluminum oxide (AAO) tubular membranes	JOURNAL OF MEMBRANE SCIENCE	Nanoporous anodic aluminum oxide (AAO) tubular membranes were fabricated from aluminum alloy tubes in sulfuric and oxalic acid electrolytes using a two-step anodization process. The membranes were investigated for characteristics such as pore size, interpore distance and thickness by varying applied voltage and electrolyte concentration. Morphology of the membranes was examined using light optical and scanning electron microscopy and characterized using ImageJ software. Results showed that membranes having narrow pore size and uniform pore distribution with parallel channel arrays were obtained. The pore sizes were ranging from 14 to 24 nm and the wall thicknesses as high as 76 mu m. It was found that the pore size increased in direct proportion with the applied voltage and inversely with the electrolyte concentration while the interpore distance increased linearly with the applied voltage. It was also observed that increase in acid concentration increased tubular membrane wall thickness that improved mechanical handling. By using anodic alumina technology, robust ceramic tubes with uniformly distributed pore structure and parallel nanochannels of lengths and sizes practical for industrial applications were reliably produced in quantity. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
245	connectionism	2005	Noe, R	PLL-free synchronous QPSK polarization multiplex/diversity receiver concept with digital I&Q baseband processing	IEEE PHOTONICS TECHNOLOGY LETTERS	This synchronous quadrature-phase-shift keying (QPSK) receiver concept allows us to process signals in parallel after electronic demultiplexing. An automatic electronic polarization control with a control time constant in the low microsecond range is provided. It is followed by a phase-locked loop free carrier recovery. An intermediate frequency linewidth tolerance of up to 10(-3) times the QPSK symbol rate is expected. Commercially available distributed feedback lasers shall, therefore, suffice.
246	connectionism	2013	Parker, J; Tsagkogeorga, G; Cotton, JA; Liu, Y; Provero, P; Stupka, E; Rossiter, SJ	Genome-wide signatures of convergent evolution in echolocating mammals	NATURE	Evolution is typically thought to proceed through divergence of genes, proteins and ultimately phenotypes(1-3). However, similar traits might also evolve convergently in unrelated taxa owing to similar selection pressures(4,5). Adaptive phenotypic convergence is widespread in nature, and recent results from several genes have suggested that this phenomenon is powerful enough to also drive recurrent evolution at the sequence level(6-9). Where homoplasious substitutions do occur these have long been considered the result of neutral processes. However, recent studies have demonstrated that adaptive convergent sequence evolution can be detected in vertebrates using statistical methods that model parallel evolution(9,10), although the extent to which sequence convergence between genera occurs across genomes is unknown. Here we analyse genomic sequence data in mammals that have independently evolved echolocation and show that convergence is not a rare process restricted to several loci but is instead widespread, continuously distributed and commonly driven by natural selection acting on a small number of sites per locus. Systematic analyses of convergent sequence evolution in 805,053 amino acids within 2,326 orthologous coding gene sequences compared across 22 mammals (including four newly sequenced bat genomes) revealed signatures consistent with convergence in nearly 200 loci. Strong and significant support for convergence among bats and the bottlenose dolphin was seen in numerous genes linked to hearing or deafness, consistent with an involvement in echolocation. Unexpectedly, we also found convergence in many genes linked to vision: the convergent signal of many sensory genes was robustly correlated with the strength of natural selection. This first attempt to detect genome-wide convergent sequence evolution across divergent taxa reveals the phenomenon to be much more pervasive than previously recognized.
247	connectionism	2000	Sassin, I; Schultz, C; Thal, DR; Rub, U; Arai, K; Braak, E; Braak, H	Evolution of Alzheimer's disease-related cytoskeletal changes in the basal nucleus of Meynert	ACTA NEUROPATHOLOGICA	This study examines the evolution of Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related pathology in a subcortical predilection site, the basal nucleus of Meynert (bnM), which is a major source of cortical cholinergic innervation. Brains of 51 autopsy cases were studied using silver techniques and immunostaining for tau-associated neurofibrillary pathology and for amyloid beta protein (A beta) deposits. All cases are classified according to a procedure permitting differentiation of six stages of AD-related neurofibrillary changes in the cerebral cortex. Initial cytoskeletal abnormalities in the bnM are already noted in stage I of cortical neurofibrillary changes. The gradual development of the neurofibrillary pathology in the bnM parallels the progression of the AD-related stages in the cerebral cortex. A variety of morphologically distinguishable cytoskeletal alterations are observed in large nerve cells which predominate in the bnM. Based on these cellular alterations, a sequence of cytoskeletal deterioration is proposed. Initially, the abnormal tau protein is distributed diffusely throughout the cell body and the neuronal processes. Subsequently, it aggregates to form a neurofibrillary tangle, which appears as a spherical somatic inclusion. The cell processes gradually become fragmented. Finally the parent cell dies, leaving behind an extraneuronal "ghost tangle". With regard to the cortical stages of AD-related neurofibrillary changes, the initial forms of cytoskeletal changes in the bnM predominate in the transentorhinal AD stages (I and II), while "ghost tangles" preferentially occur in the neocortical stages (V and VI). The considerable morphological diversity of cytoskeletal alterations is typical of stages III and IV. These results indicate that individual neurons of the bnM enter the sequence of cytoskeletal deterioration at different times.
248	connectionism	2013	Nair, D; Hosy, E; Petersen, JD; Constals, A; Giannone, G; Choquet, D; Sibarita, JB	Super-Resolution Imaging Reveals That AMPA Receptors Inside Synapses Are Dynamically Organized in Nanodomains Regulated by PSD95	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	The spatiotemporal organization of neurotransmitter receptors in postsynaptic membranes is a fundamental determinant of synaptic transmission and information processing by the brain. Using four independent super-resolution light imaging methods and EM of genetically tagged and endogenous receptors, we show that, in rat hippocampal neurons, AMPARs are often highly concentrated inside synapses into a few clusters of similar to 70 nm that contain similar to 20 receptors. AMPARs are stabilized reversibly in these nanodomains and diffuse freely outside them. Nanodomains are dynamic in their shape and position within synapses and can form or disappear within minutes, although they are mostly stable for up to 1 h. AMPAR nanodomains are often, but not systematically, colocalized with clusters of the scaffold protein PSD95, which are generally of larger size than AMPAR nanoclusters. PSD95 expression level regulates AMPAR nanodomain size and compactness in parallel to miniature EPSC amplitude. Monte Carlo simulations further indicate the impact of AMPAR concentration in clusters on the efficacy of synaptic transmission. The observation that AMPARs are highly concentrated in nanodomains, instead of diffusively distributed in the PSD as generally thought, has important consequences on our understanding of excitatory neurotransmission. Furthermore, our results indicate that glutamatergic synaptic transmission is controlled by the nanometer-scale regulation of the size of these highly concentrated nanodomains.
249	connectionism	2008	Abraham, WC; Williams, JM	LTP maintenance and its protein synthesis-dependence	NEUROBIOLOGY OF LEARNING AND MEMORY	The properties of long-term potentiation (LTP) mirror those of associative memory in a number of interesting ways. Although plasticity at monosynaptic connections is not expected to account for the varied subtle characteristics of distributed memories, nonetheless it is important to establish how far the parallels can be drawn. Here, we briefly address whether properties of LTP such as its duration, reversibility, savings and reconsolidation relate to corresponding memory phenomena. We then address whether LTP stabilization in fact requires protein synthesis, as this has been challenged in recent times much like the necessity for protein synthesis in the consolidation of long-term memory has been queried. We conclude that the case is still very strong for a necessary role of protein synthesis in LTP stabilization, even though the identities of the synthesized proteins and their contributions to the LTP process are not fully understood. However, we highlight areas of research that could be usefully conducted to further our understanding of the properties and protein synthesis-dependence of LTP. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
250	connectionism	2002	Au, WW; Treloar, HB; Greer, CA	Sublaminar organization of the mouse olfactory bulb nerve layer	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	Olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) axons coalesce to form the olfactory nerve (ON) and then grow from the olfactory epithelium to the olfactory bulb (OB), enter the olfactory nerve layer (ONL), reorganize extensively, and innervate specific glomeruli. Within the ON and ONL a population of glial cells, the olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs), surround OSN axon fascicles. To better understand the relationship between OECs and axon fascicles in the ONL of the adult mouse, we used confocal microscopy and antibodies to the low affinity nerve growth factor receptor p75 (p75), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), neuropeptide Y (NPY), and S-100 to identify glia. Antibodies to olfactory marker protein (OMP) and neuronal cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) were used to identify OSN axons. Electron microscopy characterized the ONL ultrastructure. We found that glial processes were not uniformly distributed in the ONL of the mouse. The p75(+) OEC processes were restricted to the ON and the outer ONL sublamina, and oriented parallel to the plane of the OB layers. In the inner ONL NPY OEC-like processes were seen. GFAP(+) processes were restricted to the inner ONL sublamina, the ONL/GL boundary, and the GL, where they delineated loosely aggregated axon fascicles that entered the glomeruli obliquely. S-100(+) processes and somata were distributed throughout the ONL; the outer and inner ONL were equivalent in their S-100 staining. Ultrastructural studies showed that, although OECs could be identified in both the outer and inner ONL, in the latter, their relationship to bundles of OEC axons appeared less orderly than seen in the outer ONL. Our data demonstrate a differential organization of the ONL that could subserve distinct functions; axon extension may occur predominately in the outermost ONL, whereas glomerular targeting occurs in the inner sublamina of the ONL. J. Comp. Neurol. 446:68 - 80, 2002. (C) 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
251	connectionism	1992	BLOOMFIELD, SA	RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN RECEPTIVE AND DENDRITIC FIELD SIZE OF AMACRINE CELLS IN THE RABBIT RETINA	JOURNAL OF NEUROPHYSIOLOGY	1. Intracellular recordings were obtained from 40 amacrine cells in the isolated, superfused retina eyecup of the rabbit. Cells were subsequently labeled with horseradish peroxidase for morphological identification. Many of these cells displayed dendritic morphology consistent with that of amacrine cells described in prior anatomic studies, including starburst, A17, AII, and DAPI-3 cells. 2. The center receptive field of amacrine cells was measured with a 50- or 95-mum-wide, 6.0-mm-long rectangular slit of light that was displaced along its minor axis (parallel to the visual streak) in increments as small as 3 mum. The extent of the receptive field was calculated as the total distance over which the displaced slit could evoke a center response. Area summation of amacrine cells was measured with concentric spots of light with increasing diameters centered over the cell. 3. For a single amacrine cell, the receptive field size was comparable to the extent of its dendritic arbor. For the total population of amacrine cells, there was a strong, linear relationship between receptive field and dendritic field size. The receptive fields were, on average, 27% larger than the corresponding dendritic arbors, but this discrepancy can be accounted for entirely by tissue shrinkage associated with histological processing and a small imprecision of the light stimuli. Area summation measurements were consistent with those of receptive fields and were also related linearly to the dendritic field size of cells. 4. These findings indicate that even when the slit of light was placed at the distal edges of the dendritic arbor, synaptic inputs activated there were propagated effectively to the soma and recorded by microelectrodes placed there. In addition, amacrine cells were capable of summating synaptic inputs distributed throughout the entire arbor. 5. These results are inconsistent with the findings of prior computational modeling studies of passive, dendritic current flow in A17 and starburst amacrine cells that synaptic inputs on distal dendritic branches are isolated electrically from the soma and that these branches form autonomous, functional subunits. 6. The majority of amacrine cells encountered displayed light-evoked and/or spontaneous action potentials. These action potentials often took the form of high-amplitude somatic and low-amplitude dendritic spikes. On average, spiking amacrine cells showed considerably larger dendritic fields than nonspiking amacrine cells. In fact, all amacrine cells with arbors > 436 mum, which formed 45% of the total population, displayed spike activity. These data suggest that spike generation is a feature common to most medium- and large-field amacrine cells, permitting active propagation of synaptic currents over distances often > 1 mm. 7. Thus the discrepancy between the present electrophysiological data and those of prior modeling studies may be explained by the fact that synaptic inputs to most amacrine cells are not propagated passively within the arbor but rather by an active, regenerative process.
252	connectionism	2010	Xavier-de-Souza, S; Suykens, JAK; Vandewalle, J; Bolle, D	Coupled Simulated Annealing	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS MAN AND CYBERNETICS PART B-CYBERNETICS	We present a new class of methods for the global optimization of continuous variables based on simulated annealing ( SA). The coupled SA (CSA) class is characterized by a set of parallel SA processes coupled by their acceptance probabilities. The coupling is performed by a term in the acceptance probability function, which is a function of the energies of the current states of all SA processes. A particular CSA instance method is distinguished by the form of its coupling term and acceptance probability. In this paper, we present three CSA instance methods and compare them with the uncoupled case, i.e., multistart SA. The primary objective of the coupling in CSA is to create cooperative behavior via information exchange. This aim helps in the decision of whether uphill moves will be accepted. In addition, coupling can provide information that can be used online to steer the overall optimization process toward the global optimum. We present an example where we use the acceptance temperature to control the variance of the acceptance probabilities with a simple control scheme. This approach leads to much better optimization efficiency, because it reduces the sensitivity of the algorithm to initialization parameters while guiding the optimization process to quasioptimal runs. We present the results of extensive experiments and show that the addition of the coupling and the variance control leads to considerable improvements with respect to the uncoupled case and a more recently proposed distributed version of SA.
253	connectionism	2003	Korniss, G; Novotny, MA; Guclu, H; Toroczkai, Z; Rikvold, PA	Suppressing roughness of virtual times in parallel discrete-event simulations	SCIENCE	In a parallel discrete-event simulation (PDES) scheme, tasks are distributed among processing elements (PEs) whose progress is controlled by a synchronization scheme. For lattice systems with short-range interactions, the progress of the conservative PDES scheme is governed by the Kardar-Parisi-Zhang equation from the theory of nonequilibrium surface growth. Although the simulated (virtual) times of the PEs progress at a nonzero rate, their standard deviation (spread) diverges with the number of PEs, hindering efficient data collection. We show that weak random interactions among the PEs can make this spread nondivergent. The PEs then progress at a nonzero, near-uniform rate without requiring global synchronizations.
254	connectionism	1993	DEAR, SP; FRITZ, J; HARESIGN, T; FERRAGAMO, M; SIMMONS, JA	TONOTOPIC AND FUNCTIONAL-ORGANIZATION IN THE AUDITORY-CORTEX OF THE BIG BROWN BAT, EPTESICUS-FUSCUS	JOURNAL OF NEUROPHYSIOLOGY	1.  In Eptesicus the auditory cortex, as defined by electrical activity recorded from microelectrodes in response to tone bursts, FM sweeps, and combinations of FM sweeps, encompasses an average cortical surface area of 5.7 mm2.  This area is large with respect to the total cortical surface area and reflects the importance of auditory processing to this species of bat. 2.  The predominant pattern of organization in response to tone bursts observed in each cortex is tonotopic, with three discernible divisions revealed by our data.  However, although cortical best-frequency (BF) maps from most of the individual bats are similar, no two maps are identical.  The largest division contains an average of 84% of the auditory cortical surface area, with BF tonotopically mapped from high to low along the anteroposterior axis and is part of the primary auditory cortex.  The medium division encompasses an average of 13% of the auditory cortical surface area, with highly variable BF organization across bats.  The third region is the smallest, with an average of only 3% of auditory cortical surface area and is located at the anterolateral  edge of the cortex.  The region is marked by a reversal of the tonotopic axis and a restriction in the range of BFs as compared with the larger, tonotopically organized division. 3.  A population of cortical neurons was found (n = 39) in which each neuron exhibited two BF threshold minima (BF1 and BF2) in response to tone bursts.  These neurons thus have multipeaked frequency threshold tuning curves.  In Eptesicus the majority of multipeaked frequency-tuned neurons (n = 27) have threshold minima at frequencies that correspond to a harmonic ratio of three-to-one.  In contrast, the majority of multipeaked neurons in cats have threshold minima at frequencies in a ratio of three-to-two. A three-to-one harmonic ratio corresponds to the ''spectral notches'' produced by interference between overlapping echoes from multiple reflective surfaces in complex sonar targets.  Behavioral experiments have demonstrated the ability of Eptesicus to use spectral interference notches for perceiving target shape, and this subpopulation of multipeaked frequency-tuned neurons may be involved in coding of spectral notches. 4.  The auditory cortex contains delay-tuned neurons that encode target range (n = 99).  Most delay-tuned neurons respond poorly to tones or individual FM sweeps and require combinations of FM sweeps.  They are combination sensitive and delay tuned.  The response of cortical delay-tuned neurons is phasic with an average of 1.1 +/- 0.6 (mean +/- SD) action potentials per pulse-echo pair.  Thus delay-tuned neurons act as coincidence detectors without additional facilitation. 5.  The distribution of best echo delays (BDs) of cortical delay-tuned neurons appears bimodal, with neurons in the first mode (n = 33) encompassing BDs from 2 to approximately 11 ms and the second mode (n = 66) from approximately 11 to 28 ms.  The distribution of BDs in the first mode is similar to the range of BDs seen in other species of bats, but the distribution of BDs encompassed by the second mode appears unique and suggests a longer working range for echolocation in this species.  As an ensemble, cortical delay-tuned neurons encode target ranges of 34-484 cm, corresponding to the behaviorally observed 5-m limit for the detection of insect-sized objects. 6.  Delay-tuned neurons in the tonotopically organized area (n = 36) typically exhibit shorter BDs and longer echo facilitation latencies (EFLs) than delay-tuned neurons in the variable frequency area (n = 48).  These differences are statistically significant and suggest that delay-tuned neurons in the variable and tonotopic regions constitute separate, multiple representations of target range information. 7.  The distribution of BDs delay-tuned neurons is not topographically arrayed across the auditory cortex, at least not on the same large scale as tonotopic frequency organization. 8.  Some (13 out of 25 tested) delay-tuned neurons systematically shifted their BDs in response to changes in the simulated pulse amplitude.  These delay-tuned neurons are termed ''amplitude shift'' neurons.  Of the 13 amplitude shift neurons, 11 exhibited a decrease in BD in response to decreasing pulse amplitudes, and 2 exhibited an increase in BD in response to decreasing pulse amplitudes.  Amplitude shift cells shifted their BD by an average 11 +/- 8 ms for an average change of 13 +/- 8 dB SPL.  The location of amplitude shift cells appears randomly distributed among delay-tuned neurons in the variable and tonotopic areas. 9.  We develop a conceptual framework to understand the nontopographic organization of BDs by considering the overlapping multipeaked frequency-tuned and delay-tuned cortical fields in Eptesicus as parallel spectral and temporal components of a target range imaging process.
255	connectionism	1994	MANIS, PB; SPIROU, GA; WRIGHT, DD; PAYDAR, S; RYUGO, DK	PHYSIOLOGY AND MORPHOLOGY OF COMPLEX SPIKING NEURONS IN THE GUINEA-PIG DORSAL COCHLEAR NUCLEUS	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	Intracellular recordings from the dorsal cochlear nucleus have identified cells with both simple and complex action potential waveforms. We investigated the hypothesis that cartwheel cells are a specific cell type that generates complex action potentials, based on their analogous anatomical, developmental, and biochemical similarities to cerebellar Purkinje cells, which are known to discharge complex action potentials. Intracellular recordings were made from a brain slice preparation of the guinea pig dorsal cochlear nucleus. A subpopulation of cells discharged a series of two or three action potentials riding on a slow depolarization as an all-or-none event; this discharge pattern is called a complex spike or burst. These cells also exhibited anodal break bursts, anomalous rectification, subthreshold inward rectification, and frequent inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs). Seven complex-spiking cells were stained with intracellular dyes and subsequently identified as cartwheel neurons. In contrast, six identified simple-spiking cells recorded in concurrent experiments were pyramidal cells. The cartwheel cell bodies reside in the lower part of layer 1 and the upper part of layer 2 of the nucleus. The cells are characterized by spiny dendrites penetrating the molecular layer, a lack of basal dendritic processes, and an axonal plexus invading layers 2 and 3, and the inner regions of layer 1. The cartwheel cell axons made putative synaptic contacts at the light microscopic level with pyramidal cells and small cells, including stellate cells, granule cells, and other cartwheel cells in layers 1 and 2. The axonal plexus of individual cartwheel cells suggests that they can inhibit cells receiving input from either the same or adjacent parallel fibers and that this inhibition is distributed along the isofrequency contours of the nucleus. (C) 1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
256	connectionism	1993	ZHOU, SN; ZHENG, XH; WANG, JW; DELISLE, P	UTOPIA - A LOAD SHARING FACILITY FOR LARGE, HETEROGENEOUS DISTRIBUTED COMPUTER-SYSTEMS	SOFTWARE-PRACTICE & EXPERIENCE	Load sharing in large, heterogeneous distributed systems allows users to access vast amounts of computing resources scattered around the system and may provide substantial performance improvements to applications. We discuss the design and implementation issues in Utopia, a load sharing facility specifically built for large and heterogeneous systems. The system has no restriction on the types of tasks that can be remotely executed, involves few application changes and no operating system change, supports a high degree of transparency for remote task execution, and incurs low overhead. The algorithms for managing resource load information and task placement take advantage of the clustering nature of large-scale distributed systems; centralized algorithms are used within host clusters, and directed graph algorithms are used among the clusters to make Utopia scalable to thousands of hosts. Task placements in Utopia exploit the heterogeneous hosts and consider varying resource demands of the tasks. A range of mechanisms for remote execution is available in Utopia that provides varying degrees of transparency and efficiency. A number of applications have been developed for Utopia, ranging from a load sharing command interpreter, to parallel and distributed applications, to a distributed batch facility. For example, an enhanced Unix command interpreter allows arbitrary commands and user jobs to be executed remotely, and a parallel make facility achieves speed-ups of 15 or more by processing a collection of tasks in parallel on a number of hosts.
257	connectionism	1990	BRAY, D	INTRACELLULAR SIGNALING AS A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED PROCESS	JOURNAL OF THEORETICAL BIOLOGY	0
258	connectionism	2013	van den Heuvel, MP; Sporns, O	An Anatomical Substrate for Integration among Functional Networks in Human Cortex	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	The human brain shows several characteristics of an efficient communication network architecture, including short communication paths and the existence of modules interlinked by a small set of highly connected regions. Studies of structural networks comprising macroscopic white matter projections have shown that these putative hubs are densely interconnected, giving rise to a spatially distributed and topologically central collective called the "rich club." In parallel, studies of intrinsic brain activity have consistently revealed distinct functional communities or resting-state networks (RSNs), indicative of specialized processing and segregation of neuronal information. However, the pattern of structural connectivity interconnecting these functional RSNs and how such inter-RSN structural connections might bring about functional integration between RSNs remain largely unknown. Combining high-resolution diffusion weighted imaging with resting-state fMRI, we present novel evidence suggesting that the rich club structure plays a central role in cross-linking macroscopic RSNs of the human brain. Rich club hub nodes were present in all functional networks, accounted for a large proportion of "connector nodes," and were found to coincide with regions in which multiple networks overlap. In addition, a large proportion of all inter-RSN connections were found to involve rich club nodes, and these connections participated in a disproportionate number of communication paths linking nodes in different RSNs. Our findings suggest that the brain's rich club serves as a macroscopic anatomical substrate to cross-link functional networks and thus plays an important role in the integration of information between segregated functional domains of the human cortex.
259	connectionism	2011	Plaza, A; Du, Q; Chang, YL; King, RL	High Performance Computing for Hyperspectral Remote Sensing	IEEE JOURNAL OF SELECTED TOPICS IN APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND REMOTE SENSING	Advances in sensor and computer technology are revolutionizing the way remotely sensed data is collected, managed and analyzed. In particular, many current and future applications of remote sensing in Earth science, space science, and soon in exploration science will require real-or near real-time processing capabilities. In recent years, several efforts have been directed towards the incorporation of high-performance computing (HPC) models to remote sensing missions. A relevant example of a remote sensing application in which the use of HPC technologies (such as parallel and distributed computing) is becoming essential is hyperspectral remote sensing, in which an imaging spectrometer collects hundreds or even thousands of measurements (at multiple wavelength channels) for the same area on the surface of the Earth. In this paper, we review recent developments in the application of HPC techniques to hyperspectral imaging problems, with particular emphasis on commodity architectures such as clusters, heterogeneous networks of computers, and specialized hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) and commodity graphic processing units (GPUs). A quantitative comparison across these architectures is given by analyzing performance results of different parallel implementations of the same hyperspectral unmixing chain, delivering a snapshot of the state-of-the-art in this area and a thoughtful perspective on the potential and emerging challenges of applying HPC paradigms to hyperspectral remote sensing problems.
260	connectionism	2011	Wilde, M; Hategan, M; Wozniak, JM; Clifford, B; Katz, DS; Foster, I	Swift: A language for distributed parallel scripting	PARALLEL COMPUTING	Scientists, engineers, and statisticians must execute domain-specific application programs many times on large collections of file-based data. This activity requires complex orchestration and data management as data is passed to, from, and among application invocations. Distributed and parallel computing resources can accelerate such processing, but their use further increases programming complexity. The Swift parallel scripting language reduces these complexities by making file system structures accessible via language constructs and by allowing ordinary application programs to be composed into powerful parallel scripts that can efficiently utilize parallel and distributed resources. We present Swift's implicitly parallel and deterministic programming model, which applies external applications to file collections using a functional style that abstracts and simplifies distributed parallel execution. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
261	connectionism	2008	Casazza, PG; Kutyniok, G; Li, SD	Fusion frames and distributed processing	APPLIED AND COMPUTATIONAL HARMONIC ANALYSIS	Let {W-i}(i is an element of j) be a (redundant) sequence of subspaces of a Hilbert space each being endowed with a weight vi, and let R be the closed linear span of the W(i)s, a composite Hilbert space. {(W-i, upsilon(i))}(i is an element of I) is called a fusion frame provided it satisfies a certain property which controls the weighted overlaps of the subspaces. These systems contain conventional frames as a special case, however they reach far "beyond frame theory." In case each subspace W-i is equipped with a spanning frame system {f(jj)}(j is an element of Ji), we refer to {(W-i, upsilon(i), {f(ij)}(j is an element of Ji))}(i is an element of I) as a fusion frame system. The focus of this article is on computational issues of fusion frame reconstructions, unique properties of fusion frames important for applications with particular focus on those superior to conventional frames, and on centralized reconstruction versus distributed reconstructions and their numerical differences. The weighted and distributed processing technique described in this article is not only a natural fit to distributed processing systems such as sensor networks, but also an efficient scheme for parallel processing of very large frame systems. Another important component of this article is an extensive study of the robustness of fusion frame systems. (c) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
262	connectionism	2007	Hardy, J; Shamir, J	Optics inspired logic architecture	OPTICS EXPRESS	Conventional architectures for the implementation of Boolean logic are based on a network of bistable elements assembled to realize cascades of simple Boolean logic gates. Since each such gate has two input signals and only one output signal, such architectures are fundamentally dissipative in information and energy. Their serial nature also induces a latency in the processing time. In this paper we present a new, principally non-dissipative digital logic architecture which mitigates the above impediments. Unlike traditional computing architectures, the proposed architecture involves a distributed and parallel input scheme where logical functions are evaluated at the speed of light. The system is based on digital logic vectors rather than the Boolean scalars of electronic logic. The architecture employs a novel conception of cascading which utilizes the strengths of both optics and electronics while avoiding their weaknesses. It is inherently non- dissipative, respects the linear nature of interactions in pure optics, and harnesses the control advantages of electrons without reducing the speed advantages of optics. This new logic paradigm was specially developed with optical implementation in mind. However, it is suitable for other implementations as well, including conventional electronic devices. (c) 2007 Optical Society of America.
263	connectionism	2006	Beringer, J; Hullermeier, E	Online clustering of parallel data streams	DATA & KNOWLEDGE ENGINEERING	In recent years, the management and processing of so-called data streams has become a topic of active research in several fields of computer science such as, e.g., distributed systems, database systems, and data mining. A data stream can roughly be thought of as a transient, continuously increasing sequence of time-stamped data. In this paper, we consider the problem of clustering parallel streams of real-valued data, that is to say, continuously evolving time series. In other words, we are interested in grouping data streams the evolution over time of which is similar in a specific sense. In order to maintain an up-to-date clustering structure, it is necessary to analyze the incoming data in an online manner, tolerating not more than a constant time delay. For this purpose, we develop an efficient online version of the classical K-means clustering algorithm. Our method's efficiency is mainly due to a scalable online transformation of the original data which allows for a fast computation of approximate distances between streams. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
264	connectionism	2009	Epinat, B; Contini, T; Le Fevre, O; Vergani, D; Garilli, B; Amram, P; Queyrel, J; Tasca, L; Tresse, L	Integral field spectroscopy with SINFONI of VVDS galaxies I. Galaxy dynamics and mass assembly at 1.2 < z < 1.6	ASTRONOMY & ASTROPHYSICS	Context. Identifying the main processes of galaxy assembly at high redshifts is still a major issue in understanding galaxy formation and evolution at early epochs in the history of the Universe. Aims. This work aims to provide a first insight into the dynamics and mass assembly of galaxies at redshifts 1.2 < z < 1.6, the early epoch just before the sharp decrease of the cosmic star formation rate. Methods. We use the near-infrared integral field spectrograph SINFONI on the ESO-VLT under 0.65 '' seeing to obtain spatially resolved spectroscopy on nine emission line galaxies with 1.2 <= z <= 1.6 from the VIMOS VLT Deep Survey. We derive the velocity fields and velocity dispersions on kpc scales using the Ha emission line. Results. Out of the nine star-forming galaxies, we find that galaxies are distributed in three groups: two galaxies can be well reproduced by a rotating disk, three systems can be classified as major mergers and four galaxies show disturbed dynamics and high velocity dispersion. We argue that there is evidence for hierarchical mass assembly from major merging, with most massive galaxies with M > 10(11) M(circle dot) subject to at least one major merger over a 3 Gyr period as well as for continuous accretion feeding strong star formation. Conclusions. These results point towards a galaxy formation and assembly scenario which involves several processes, possibly acting in parallel, with major mergers and continuous gas accretion playing a major role. Well controlled samples representative of the bulk of the galaxy population at this key cosmic time are necessary to make further progress.
265	connectionism	1998	Brown, LL; Smith, DM; Goldbloom, LM	Organizing principles of cortical integration in the rat neostriatum: Corticostriate map of the body surface is an ordered lattice of curved laminae and radial points	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	The neuroanatomic organizing principles underlying integrative functions in the striatum are only partially understood. Within the three major subdivisions of the striatum-sensorimotor, associative, and limbic-longitudinal zones of axonal plexuses from the cerebral cortex end in bands and clusters that innervate cell groups. To identify organizing principles of the corticostriate bands and clusters, are localized somatosensory cortical cells receptive to light touch on the hindlimb, forelimb, or vibrissae by extracellular recording, and we labeled their projections by iontophoretic application of dextran anterograde tracers. The results show that cortical cells in columnar groups project to the striatum in the form of successive strips, or laminae, that parallel the curve of the external capsule. The vibrissae somatosensory cortex projects to the most lateral lamina. Just medial to the vibrissae projection, the major axonal arborizations arising from hindlimb and forelimb somatosensory cortex are organized within a common lamina, where they interdigitate and overlap as well as remain separate. In addition, the hindlimb and forelimb cortex send small projections to the vibrissae lamina, and vice versa, forming broken, radially oriented lines of points across the laminar strips. The major somatosensory projections are in the dorsolateral, calbindin-poor sensorimotor striatum, whereas the radially oriented projection points extend into the medial, calbindin-rich associative striatum. Extending previous studies of corticostriate projections, this report shows a grid translation of columnar somatosensory cortical inputs into striatum and a detailed map for the rat sensorimotor zone. The lattice-like grid is a novel functional/neuroanatomic organization that is ideal for distributing, combining, and integrating information for sensorimotor and cognitive processing. (C) 1998 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
266	connectionism	2009	Engelmann, JB; Damaraju, E; Padmala, S; Pessoa, L	Combined effects of attention and motivation on visual task performance: transient and sustained motivational effects	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	We investigated how the brain integrates motivational and attentional signals by using a neuroimaging paradigm that provided separate estimates for transient cue- and target-related signals, in addition to sustained block-related responses. Participants performed a Posner-type task in which an endogenous cue predicted target location on 70% of trials, while motivation was manipulated by varying magnitude and valence of a cash incentive linked to task performance. Our findings revealed increased detection performance (d') as a function of incentive value. In parallel, brain signals revealed that increases in absolute incentive magnitude led to cue- and target-specifi c response modulations that were independent of sustained state effects across visual cortex, fronto-parietal regions, and subcortical regions. Interestingly, state-like effects of incentive were observed in several of these brain regions, too, suggesting that both transient and sustained fMRI signals may contribute to task performance. For both cue and block periods, the effects of administering incentives were correlated with individual trait measures of reward sensitivity. Taken together, our findings support the notion that motivation improves behavioral performance in a demanding attention task by enhancing evoked responses across a distributed set of anatomical sites, many of which have been previously implicated in attentional processing. However, the effect of motivation was not simply additive as the impact of absolute incentive was greater during invalid than valid trials in several brain regions, possibly because motivation had a larger effect on reorienting than orienting attentional mechanisms at these sites.
267	connectionism	2004	Yilmaz, AE; Jin, JM; Michielssen, E	Time domain adaptive integral method for surface integral equations	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ANTENNAS AND PROPAGATION	An efficient marching-on-in-time (MOT) scheme is presented for solving electric, magnetic, and combined field integral equations pertinent to the analysis of transient electromagnetic scattering from perfectly conducting surfaces residing in an unbounded homogenous medium. The proposed scheme is the extension of the frequency-domain adaptive integral/pre-corrected fast-Fourier transform (FFT) method to the time domain. Fields on the scatterer that are produced by space-time sources residing on its surface are computed: 1) by locally projecting, for each time step, all sources onto a uniform auxiliary grid that encases the scatterer; 2) by computing everywhere on this grid the transient fields produced by the resulting auxiliary sources via global, multilevel/blocked, space-time FFTs; 3) by locally interpolating these fields back onto the scatterer surface. As this procedure is inaccurate when source and observer points reside close to each other; and 4) near fields are computed classically, albeit (pre-)corrected, for errors introduced through the use of global FFTs. The proposed scheme has a computational complexity and memory requirement of O(N(t)N(s)log(2) N-s) and O(N-3/2) when applied to quasiplanar structures, and of O(NtNs3/2 log(2) N-s) and O(N-s(2)) when used to analyze scattering from general surfaces. Here, N-s. and N-t denote the number of spatial and temporal degrees of freedom of the surface current density. These computational cost and memory requirements are contrasted to those of classical MOT solvers, which scale as O(NtNs2) and O(N-s(2)), respectively. A parallel implementation of the scheme on a distributed-memory computer cluster that uses the message-passing interface is described. Simulation results demonstrate the accuracy, efficiency, and the parallel performance of the implementation.
268	connectionism	2003	Bortfeldt, A; Gehring, H; Mack, D	A parallel tabu search algorithm for solving the container loading problem	PARALLEL COMPUTING	This paper presents a parallel tabu search algorithm for the container loading problem with a single container to be loaded. The emphasis is on the case of a weakly heterogeneous load. The distributed-parallel approach is based on the concept of multi-search threads according to Toulouse et al. [Issues in designing parallel and distributed search algorithms for discrete optimization problems, Publication CRT-96-36, Centre de recherche sur les transports, Universitede Montreal, Canada, 1996] i.e., several search paths are investigated concurrently. The parallel searches are carried out by differently configured instances of a tabu search algorithm, which cooperate by the exchange of (best) solutions at the end of defined search phases. The parallel search processes are executed on a corresponding number of LAN workstations. The efficiency of the parallel tabu search algorithm is demonstrated by an extensive comparative test including well-known reference problems and loading procedures from other authors. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
269	connectionism	2001	Sarma, KC; Adeli, H	Bilevel parallel genetic algorithms for optimization of large steel structures	COMPUTER-AIDED CIVIL AND INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING	This article is concerned with optimization of very large steel structures subjected to the actual constraints of the American Institute of Steel Construction ASD and LRFD specifications on high-performance multiprocessor machines using biologically inspired genetic algorithms. First, parallel fuzzy genetic algorithms (GAs) are presented for optimization of steel structures using a distributed memory Message Passing Interface (MPI) with two different schemes: the processor farming scheme and the migration scheme. Next, two bilevel parallel GAs are presented for large-scale structural optimization through judicious combination of shared memory data parallel processing using the OpenMP Application Programming Interface (API) and distributed memory message passing parallel processing using MPI. Speedup results are presented for parallel algorithms.
270	connectionism	2000	Leach, TJ; Mazzeo, M; Chotkowski, HL; Madigan, JP; Wotring, MG; Glaser, RL	Histone H2A.Z is widely but nonrandomly distributed in chromosomes of Drosophila melanogaster	JOURNAL OF BIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY	Variant histones that differ in amino acid sequence from S-phase histones are widespread in eukaryotes, yet the structural changes they cause to nucleosomes and how those changes affect relevant cellular processes have not been determined. H2A.F/Z is a highly conserved family of H2A variants. H2Av, the H2A.F/Z variant of Drosophila melanogaster, was localized in polytene chromosomes by indirect immunofluorescence and in diploid chromosomes by chromatin immunoprecipitation. H2Av was widely distributed in the genome and not limited to sites of active transcription. H2Av was present in thousands of euchromatic bands and the heterochromatic chromocenter of polytene chromosomes, and the H2Av antibody precipitated both transcribed and nontranscribed genes as well as noncoding euchromatic and heterochromatic sequences. The distribution of H2Av was not uniform. The complex banding pattern of H2Av in polytene chromosomes did not parallel the concentration of DNA, as did the pattern of immunofluorescence using H2A antibodies, and the density of H2Av measured by immunoprecipitation varied between different sequences. Of the sequences assayed, H2Av was least abundant on 1.688 satellite sequences and most abundant on the hsp70 genes. Finally, transcription caused, to an equivalent extent, both H2Av and H2A to be less tightly associated with DNA.
271	connectionism	1991	BAND, LE; PETERSON, DL; RUNNING, SW; COUGHLAN, J; LAMMERS, R; DUNGAN, J; NEMANI, R	FOREST ECOSYSTEM PROCESSES AT THE WATERSHED SCALE - BASIS FOR DISTRIBUTED SIMULATION	ECOLOGICAL MODELLING	A framework is described to compute and map forest evapotranspiration and net primary productivity over complex mountainous terrain. The methodology is based on the interface of geographic information processing and remote sensing with FOREST-BGC, a nonlinear deterministic model designed to simulate carbon, water and nitrogen cycles in a forest ecosystem. The model requires as input the geographic patterns of leaf area index (LAI), available soil water capacity (SWC) and microclimatic parameters over the landscape. These patterns are represented with the use of a template consisting of the set of hillslopes, stream channels and subwatersheds that completely define the landscape. A geo-referenced database containing digital elevation data, remotely sensed information and other environmental data are stratified by this template. We have found that the stratification of the surface data sets by a hillslope or watershed template produces landscape units with low internal variance of the important model parameters but high between unit variance. By producing templates at different levels of resolution, we have the ability to reorganize the model parameter set to different levels of surface generalization. The model is directly parameterized for each of these surface units which can then be simulated in parallel, providing the ability to expand the simulation to large regions.
272	connectionism	2003	Pennings, SC; Selig, ER; Houser, LT; Bertness, MD	Geographic variation in positive and negative interactions among salt marsh plants	ECOLOGY	A pressing problem for ecologists is determining whether our understanding of communities, often developed from work at fine scales, can explain processes across broader scales. Here, we explore whether models of positive interactions developed in southern New England can be applied to geographic scales. Salt marsh plants may interact positively by ameliorating harsh physical conditions such as salinity stress. Because marsh porewater salinities are higher in low- vs. high-latitude marshes, we tested the hypothesis that positive interactions are increasingly important at low latitudes. Previous work supported this hypothesis at the regional scale: within New England, positive interactions were rare in Maine but common in Rhode Island. We conducted parallel experiments in Georgia and Alabama to determine whether similar results would be obtained in a geographic comparison. Nine species of salt marsh plants were transplanted into control plots or plots with neighboring vegetation removed, in three marsh zones, at two sites each in Georgia and Alabama. Removing neighbors increased porewater salinities; nevertheless, plants usually performed best in neighbor-removal treatments, indicating that most interactions were competitive rather than facilitative. Several mechanisms might explain these results. For-widely distributed species, southern individuals may be more salt tolerant than northern conspecifics. We tested this hypothesis by comparing the salt tolerance of northern and southern conspecifics of three species in a common garden experiment. In two species, southern plants were more salt tolerant than northern conspecifics. Although this pattern may explain the rarity of facilitation in the south for some species, it cannot explain our overall results because few species were studied in both geographic regions. The most likely explanation for our results is that northern marsh floras are dominated by salt-sensitive species that are likely to be facilitated by neighbors, whereas southern marsh floras are dominated by salt-tolerant species that are unlikely to benefit substantially from neighbor amelioration of soil salinities. These results illustrate the difficulties inherent in extrapolating results from even well understood systems to different geographic locations or scales. Intraspecific adaptations and community composition are often likely to vary geographically, complicating our efforts to construct geographically robust generalities about community structure and processes.
273	connectionism	2002	Keppenne, CL; Rienecker, MM	Initial testing of a massively parallel ensemble Kalman filter with the Poseidon isopycnal ocean general circulation model	MONTHLY WEATHER REVIEW	A multivariate ensemble Kalman filter (MvEnKF) implemented on a massively parallel computer architecture has been developed for the Poseidon ocean circulation model and tested with a Pacific basin model configuration. There are about 2 million prognostic state-vector variables. Parallelism for the data assimilation step is achieved by regionalization of the background-error covariances that are calculated from the phase - space distribution of the ensemble. Each processing element ( PE) collects elements of a matrix measurement functional from nearby PEs. To avoid the introduction of spurious long-range covariances associated with finite ensemble sizes, the background-error covariances are given compact support by means of a Hadamard ( element by element) product with a three-dimensional canonical correlation function. The methodology and the MvEnKF implementation are discussed. To verify the proper functioning of the algorithms, results from an initial experiment with in situ temperature data are presented. Furthermore, it is shown that the regionalization of the background covariances has a negligible impact on the quality of the analyses. Even though the parallel algorithm is very efficient for large numbers of observations, individual PE memory, rather than speed, dictates how large an ensemble can be used in practice on a platform with distributed memory.
274	connectionism	1999	Sklar, AE; Sarter, NB	Good vibrations: Tactile feedback in support of attention allocation and human-automation coordination in event-driven domains	HUMAN FACTORS	Observed breakdowns in human-machine communication can be explained, in part, by the nature of current automation feedback, which relies heavily on focal visual attention. Such feedback is not well suited for capturing attention in case of unexpected changes and events or for supporting the parallel processing of large amounts of data in complex domains. As suggested by multiple-resource theory, one possible solution to this problem is to distribute information across various sensory modalities. A simulator study was conducted to compare the effectiveness of visual, tactile, and redundant visual and tactile cues for indicating unexpected changes in the status of an automated cockpit system. Both tactile conditions resulted in higher detection rates for, and faster response times to, uncommanded mode transitions. Tactile feedback did not interfere with, nor was its effectiveness affected by, the performance of concurrent visual tasks. The observed improvement in task-sharing performance indicates that the introduction of tactile feedback is a promising avenue toward better supporting human-machine communication in event-driven, information-rich domains.
275	connectionism	2009	Chen, Y; Wang, YK; Ugur, K; Hannuksela, MM; Lainema, J; Gabbouj, M	The emerging MVC standard for 3D video services	EURASIP JOURNAL ON ADVANCES IN SIGNAL PROCESSING	Multiview video has gained a wide interest recently. The huge amount of data needed to be processed by multiview applications is a heavy burden for both transmission and decoding. The joint video team has recently devoted part of its effort to extend the widely deployed H.264/AVC standard to handle multiview video coding (MVC). The MVC extension of H.264/AVC includes a number of new techniques for improved coding efficiency, reduced decoding complexity, and new functionalities for multiview operations. MVC takes advantage of some of the interfaces and transport mechanisms introduced for the scalable video coding (SVC) extension of H.264/AVC, but the system level integration of MVC is conceptually more challenging as the decoder output may contain more than one view and can consist of any combination of the views with any temporal level. The generation of all the output views also requires careful consideration and control of the available decoder resources. In this paper, multiview applications and solutions to support generic multiview as well as 3D services are introduced. The proposed solutions, which have been adopted to the draft MVC specification, cover a wide range of requirements for 3D video related to interface, transport of the MVC bitstreams, and MVC decoder resource management. The features that have been introduced in MVC to support these solutions include marking of reference pictures, supporting for efficient view switching, structuring of the bitstream, signalling of view scalability supplemental enhancement information (SEI) and parallel decoding SEI. Copyright (C) 2009 Ying Chen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.
276	connectionism	1993	SERESS, L; NITSCH, R; LERANTH, C	CALRETININ IMMUNOREACTIVITY IN THE MONKEY HIPPOCAMPAL-FORMATION .1. LIGHT AND ELECTRON-MICROSCOPIC CHARACTERISTICS AND COLOCALIZATION WITH OTHER CALCIUM-BINDING PROTEINS	NEUROSCIENCE	Calretinin-containing neurons were visualized by immunocytochemistry in the monkey hippocampal formation, subicular complex, and entorhinal cortex. Calretinin-immunoreactivity was present exclusively in non-granule cells of the dentate gyrus and in non-pyramidal cells of Ammon's horn, subiculum and entorhinal cortex. Most frequently, calretinin-positive neurons were found at the hilar border of the dentate granule cell layer and in the stratum radiatum of CA1-3 areas. In the subicular complex, immunoreactive neurons were evenly distributed in all layers, whereas in the entorhinal cortex, they were accumulated in external layers above the lamina dissecans. Distinct bands of calretinin-positive fibers occupied the supragranular zone of the molecular layer in dentate gyrus, the pyramidal cell layer of the CA2 area in Ammon's horn and the upper two layers of presubiculum. The majority of calretinin-immunoreactive neurons were small, bipolar or fusiform neurons with a dendritic tree oriented parallel to the dendrites of principal cells (granule cells in dentate gyrus and pyramidal neurons elsewhere). Dendrites were smooth or sparsely spiny, displaying small spines of conventional type. Co-existence studies showed that these neurons were completely devoid of other calcium-binding proteins, parvalbumin and calbindin. Electron microscopic analysis revealed somata of immunoreactive neurons which contained a large nucleus and a small cytoplasmic rim, which contained only few organelles. The nucleus displayed deep infoldings and intranuclear rods. Input synapses of immunoreactive neurons were rare both on somata and dendrites and large surface areas were frequently apposed by glial processes. This was very prominent in the dentate gyrus and Ammon's horn. Axons of calretinin-positive neurons were thin, arborized in all layers and had small varicosities. Their terminals formed symmetric synaptic contacts mainly with dendrites and less frequently with somata of principal cells. Axon terminals of calretinin-immunoreactive fiber bundles in the supragranular layer, as well as in the pyramidal layer of the CA2 area, formed asymmetric synaptic contacts with dendritic shafts. In addition, they established asymmetric axospinous and axosomatic synaptic contacts with granule cells of the dentate gyrus. In the presubiculum, the calretinin-positive axon bundle included a large number of immunoreactive myelinated axons, as well as axon terminals. The characteristic location and features of synapses suggests that these fibers derive from extra-hippocampal afferents (Nitsch, R. and Leranth C. (1993) Neuroscience 55, 797-812) and not from the calretinin-immunoreactive neurons of the hippocampal formation.
277	connectionism	2008	Barbeau, EJ; Taylor, MJ; Regis, J; Marquis, P; Chauvel, P; Liegeois-Chauvel, C	Spatio temporal dynamics of face recognition	CEREBRAL CORTEX	To better understand face recognition, it is necessary to identify not only which brain structures are implicated but also the dynamics of the neuronal activity in these structures. Latencies can then be compared to unravel the temporal dynamics of information processing at the distributed network level. To achieve high spatial and temporal resolution, we used intracerebral recordings in epileptic subjects while they performed a famous/unfamiliar face recognition task. The first components peaked at 110 ms in the fusiform gyrus (FG) and simultaneously in the inferior frontal gyrus, suggesting the early establishment of a large-scale network. This was followed by components peaking at 160 ms in 2 areas along the FG. Important stages of distributed parallel processes ensued at 240 and 360 ms involving up to 6 regions along the ventral visual pathway. The final components peaked at 480 ms in the hippocampus. These stages largely overlapped. Importantly, event-related potentials to famous faces differed from unfamiliar faces and control stimuli in all medial temporal lobe structures. The network was bilateral but more right sided. Thus, recognition of famous faces takes place through the establishment of a complex set of local and distributed processes that interact dynamically and may be an emergent property of these interactions.
278	connectionism	2008	Zimmerman, AT; Shiraishi, M; Swartz, RA; Lynch, JP	Automated Modal Parameter Estimation by Parallel Processing within Wireless Monitoring Systems	JOURNAL OF INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS	With recent advances in low-cost wireless sensing and data acquisition technology, it has become feasible to instrument a large structure with a dense array of wireless sensors. Furthermore, analog-to-digital conversion and data processing capabilities of current wireless sensor prototypes offer the ability to efficiently distribute data processing tasks across a large network of wireless sensing nodes. For decades, the structural engineering community has been adapting input-output modal identification techniques for use in large-scale civil structures. However, unlike in mechanical or aerospace engineering, it is often difficult to excite a large civil structure in a controlled manner. Thus, additional emphasis has been placed on developing a number of output-only modal identification methods for use in structural engineering applications. In this paper, three of these output-only methods (peak picking, random decrement, and frequency domain decomposition) are modified for implementation in a distributed array of processors embedded within a network of wireless sensor prototypes. The software architecture proposed emphasizes parallel data processing and minimal communication so as to ensure scalability and power efficiency. Using the balcony of a historic theater in metropolitan Detroit as a testbed, this network of wireless sensors is allowed to collect and process acceleration response data during a set of vibration tests. The embedded algorithms proposed in this study are used to autonomously determine the balcony's modal properties with network-derived results found to be comparable to those derived from traditional offline techniques.
279	connectionism	2011	Lee, YC; Zomaya, AY	Energy Conscious Scheduling for Distributed Computing Systems under Different Operating Conditions	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS	Traditionally, the primary performance goal of computer systems has focused on reducing the execution time of applications while increasing throughput. This performance goal has been mostly achieved by the development of high-density computer systems. As witnessed recently, these systems provide very powerful processing capability and capacity. They often consist of tens or hundreds of thousands of processors and other resource-hungry devices. The energy consumption of these systems has become a major concern. In this paper, we address the problem of scheduling precedence-constrained parallel applications on multiprocessor computer systems and present two energy-conscious scheduling algorithms using dynamic voltage scaling (DVS). A number of recent commodity processors are capable of DVS, which enables processors to operate at different voltage supply levels at the expense of sacrificing clock frequencies. In the context of scheduling, this multiple voltage facility implies that there is a trade-off between the quality of schedules and energy consumption. To effectively balance these two performance goals, we have devised a novel objective function and a variant from that. The main difference between the two algorithms is in their measurement of energy consumption. The extensive comparative evaluations conducted as part of this work show that the performance of our algorithms is very compelling in terms of both application completion time and energy consumption.
280	connectionism	2005	Cuenca, N; Pinilla, I; Sauve, Y; Lund, R	Early changes in synaptic connectivity following progressive photoreceptor degeneration in RCS rats	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	The Royal College of Surgeons (RCS) rat has a retinal pigment epithelial cell defect that causes progressive loss of photoreceptors. Although it is extensively used in retinal degeneration and repair studies, how photoreceptor degeneration affects retinal circuitry has not been fully explored. This study examined the changes in synaptic connectivity between photoreceptors and their target cells using immunocytochemistry and correlated these changes with retinal function using the electroretinogram (ERG). Immunostaining with bassoon and synaptophysin (as presynaptic markers) and metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR6, a postsynaptic marker for ON-bipolar dendrites) was already impaired at postnatal day (P) 21 and progressively lost with infrequent pairing of presynaptic and postsynaptic elements at P60. By P90 to P120, staining became increasingly patchy and was eventually restricted to sparsely and irregularly distributed foci in which the normal pairing of presynaptic and postsynaptic markers was lost. ERG results showed that mixed scotopic a-waves and b-waves were already reduced by P21 but not oscillatory potentials. While cone-driven responses (photopic b-wave) reached normal levels at P30, they were impaired by P60 but could still be recorded at P120, although with reduced amplitude; rod responses never reached normal amplitudes. Thus, only cone-driven activity attained normal levels, but declined rapidly thereafter. In conclusion, the synaptic markers associated with photoreceptors and processes of bipolar and horizontal cells show abnormalities prior to significant photoreceptor loss. These changes are paralleled with the deterioration of specific aspects of ERG responsiveness with age. Besides providing information on the effects of photoreceptor dysfunction and loss on connection patterns in the retina, the work addresses the more general issue of how disorder of input neurons affects downstream circuitry.
281	connectionism	2007	Feyen, L; Vrugt, JA; Nuallain, BO; van der Knijff, J; De Roo, A	Parameter optimisation and uncertainty assessment for large-scale streamflow simulation with the LISFLOOD model	JOURNAL OF HYDROLOGY	This work addresses the calibration of the distributed rainfall-runoff model LIS-FLOOD and, in particular, the realistic quantification of parameter uncertainty and its effect on the prediction of river discharges for large European catchments. LIS-FLOOD is driven by meteorological input data and simulates river discharge in large drainage basins as a function of spatial information on topography, soils and land cover. Even though LIS-FLOOD is physically based to a certain extent, some processes are only represented in a lumped conceptual way. As a result, some parameters tack physical basis and cannot be directly inferred from quantities that can be measured. In the current LIS-FLOOD version five parameters need to be determined by calibration. We employ the Shuffled Complex Evolution Metropolis (SCEM-UA) global optimisation algorithm to automatically calibrate the model. against daily discharge observations. The resulting posterior parameter distribution reflects the uncertainty about the model parameters after taking into account the discharge observations, and forms the basis for making probabitistic flow predictions. To overcome the computational burden the optimisation has been implemented using parallel. computing. As an illustrative example, we demonstrate the methodology for the Meuse catchment upstream of Borgharen, covering approximately 21,000 km(2). Results demonstrate the capabilities of the SCEM-UA algorithm to efficiently evolve to the target posterior distribution and to identify, except for the lower groundwater zone time constant.
282	connectionism	2006	Tang, PL; de Silva, CW	Compensation for transmission delays in an Ethernet-based control network using variable-horizon predictive control	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CONTROL SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY	Distributed control networks encounter. nondeterministic delays in data communication between sensors, actuators, and controllers, including direct-feedback control and higher level supervisor control. This paper presents a novel strategy, which extends the Generalized Predictive Control (GPC) algorithm to compensate for these data-transmission delays. Communication lines between sensors to controller and controller to actuators are considered. The present strategy incorporates a minimum-effort estimator to estimate missing or delayed sensor data and a variable-horizon adaptive GPC controller to predict the required future control efforts to drive the plant to track a desired reference trajectory. Action buffers are introduced at the actuators to sequence the future control efforts. A parallel objective of this paper is to investigate the suitability of the Ethernet network, which is cost-effective and widely deployed for implementing networked control systems. An Ethernet-based client-server control architecture is developed. The developed scheme is implemented on the dual-axis hydraulic position system of an industrial fish-processing machine.
283	connectionism	2000	Gritsevskyi, A; Nakicenovic, N	Modeling uncertainty of induced technological change	ENERGY POLICY	This paper presents a new method for modeling-induced technological learning and uncertainty in energy systems. Three related features are introduced simultaneously: (1) increasing returns to scale for the costs of new technologies; (2) clusters of linked technologies that induce learning depending on their technological "proximity" in addition to the technology relations through the structure (and connections) of the energy system; and (3) uncertain costs of all technologies and energy sources. The energy systems-engineering model MESSAGE developed at IIASA was modified to include these three new features. MESSAGE is a linear programming optimization model. The starting point for this new approach was a global (single-region) energy systems version of the MESSAGE model that includes more than 100 different energy extraction, conversion, transport, distribution and end-use technologies. A new feature is that the future costs of all technologies are uncertain and assumed to be distributed according to the log-normal distribution. These are stylized distribution functions that indirectly reflect the cost distributions of energy technologies in the future based on the analysis of the IIASA energy technology inventory. In addition, the expected value of these cost distributions is assumed to decrease and variance to narrow with the increasing application of new technologies. This means that the process of technological learning is uncertain even as cumulative experience increases. New technologies include, for example, fuel cells, photovoltaic and wind energy conversion technologies. The technologies are related through the structure of energy system in MESSAGE. For example, cheaper wind energy has direct and indirect effects on other technologies that produce electricity up-stream and on electric end-use technologies downstream. In addition, technologies are grouped into clusters that depend on technological "proximity." For example, the costs of all fuel cells for mobile applications are a function of their combined installed capacity weighted according to their expected unit sizes. This relationship depends on how closely the technologies are related. This varying degree of "collective" technological learning for technologies belonging to the same cluster is also uncertain. Each scenario of alternative future developments for a deterministic version of the global energy systems model MESSAGE requires approximately 10 min of CPU time on PC with Intel Pentium II 233 MHz and 128 MB of RAM. Therefore, it is simply infeasible to generate alternative future developments under uncertainty based on a simple Monte-Carlo type of analysis were one sequentially draws observations from the very large number of more than 200,000 cost distributions (100 technologies, 11 time steps, 10 technological clusters with 22 technologies included) assumed here for modeling technological learning and uncertainty. Instead, the new approach proposed here starts with a large but finite number of alternative energy systems "technology dynamics" and generates in "parallel" another large but finite number of deterministic scenarios by sampling from the distributions simultaneously for each of these technology dynamics. In this application, about 130,000 scenarios were generated. There were 520 alternative technology dynamics each with about 250 alternative deterministic scenarios resulting from the simultaneous stochastic samplings. Both numbers were initially varied before deciding that about 500 is a sufficient number of different technology dynamics required for a wide spectrum of alternative technological learning possibilities and that about 250 different deterministic scenarios is a sufficient number to generate most of the interesting future energy systems structures for each of the technology dynamics based on the analysis that in total produced roughly one million different scenarios. These large numbers of scenarios represent a very small subset of all possible ones that is basically infinite. They were not chosen randomly, but are a result of applying adaptive global search technique to the formulated non-convex, non-smooth stochastic problem. From the 520 alternative technology dynamics, about 53 resulted in scenarios with very similar overall energy systems cost. They have fundamentally different technological dynamics and produce a wide range of different emergent energy systems but can be considered to be approximately equivalent with respect to "optimality" criteria (in this case simultaneous cost and risk minimization). Thus, one of the results of the analysis is that different structures of energy system emerge with similar overall costs, i.e., that there is a large diversity across alternative energy technology strategies. The strategies are path dependent and it is not possible to choose a priori "optimal" direction of energy systems development. Another result of the analysis is that the endogenous technology learning with uncertainty and spillover effects have the greatest impact on the emerging structures of energy system during the first few decades of the next century. Over these "intermediate" periods of time these two processes create effective lock-in effects and increasing returns to adoption. In the very long run, however, all of these effects are not of a great importance. The reason is that over such long periods many doubling of capacity of all technologies with inherent leaning occur so that there are few relative cost advantages that result from large investments in some technologies and clusters. Therefore, the main finding is that under uncertainty the near-term investment decisions in new technologies are more important in determining the direction of long-term development of the energy system than are the decisions that are made later, towards the end of the time horizon. Thus, the most dynamic phase in the development of future energy systems occurs during the next few decades. It is during this period that there is a high freedom of choice across future technologies and many of these choices lead to high spillover learning effects for related technologies. One policy implication that can be made based on the emerging dynamics and different directions of energy systems development in this analysis is that future RD&D efforts and investments in new technologies should be distributed across "related" technologies rather than be directed at only one technology from the cluster even if it appears as a "winner." Another implication is that it is better not to spread RD&D efforts and technology investments across a large portfolio of future technologies. It is rather better to focus on (related) technologies that might form technology clusters. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
284	connectionism	1987	Fincham, D	PARALLEL COMPUTERS AND MOLECULAR SIMULATION	MOLECULAR SIMULATION	The term "molecular simulation" covers a variety of techniques that can be applied to many problems in classical statistical mechanics, ranging from lattice spin models to the dynamics of protein molecules. Two well-established techniques, Metropolis Monte Carlo and molecular dynamics, serve to illustrate the computational problems involved. The requirement for powerful and cost-effective computing has led to an interest in parallel computers in this field. Parallel computers are defined as computers having several processors working simultaneously under the control of an application program. The processors may obey common (SIMD) or individual (MIMD) instruction streams. The ICL DAP is an example of the former; the Intel hypercube is an example of an MIMD or concurrent machine employing conventional microprocessors. The INMOS Transputer is a high-performance microprocessor designed specifically for concurrent processing. SIMD computers may be programmed in versions of Fortran extended to include operations on all elements of an array in parallel. Programming of multiprocessors in standard sequential languages is cumbersome. The language Occam is designed to support concurrent processing simply and effectively, and is the native language of the Transputer. Problems in molecular simulation possess a rich degree of intrinsic parallelism at several different levels. There are three basic strategies in adapting them to parallel processing, involving the mapping onto processors of particles, of interactions, or of regions of space. Lattice simulations are ideally suited to the DAP, as lattice sites can be identified directly with processing elements. Fluids can be easily simulated on SIMD machines if a small system can be used and all interactions in the system evaluated in parallel. Simulation of larger systems requires the use of a neighbour list, or a cell algorithm in which different regions of space are handled in parallel. In either case, there is a "gather/scatter" overhead. On multiprocessors all-pairs and cell algorithms can be used; for less regular problems, truly asynchronous methods involving algorithmic rather than geometrical parallelism are possible. These methods are somewhat similar to those used in special purpose computers built for the Ising model and for molecular dynamics.
285	connectionism	2011	Burstedde, C; Wilcox, LC; Ghattas, O	p4est: SCALABLE ALGORITHMS FOR PARALLEL ADAPTIVE MESH REFINEMENT ON FORESTS OF OCTREES	SIAM JOURNAL ON SCIENTIFIC COMPUTING	We present scalable algorithms for parallel adaptive mesh refinement and coarsening (AMR), partitioning, and 2:1 balancing on computational domains composed of multiple connected two-dimensional quadtrees or three-dimensional octrees, referred to as a forest of octrees. By distributing the union of octants from all octrees in parallel, we combine the high scalability proven previously for adaptive single-octree algorithms with the geometric flexibility that can be achieved by arbitrarily connected hexahedral macromeshes, in which each macroelement is the root of an adapted octree. A key concept of our approach is an encoding scheme of the interoctree connectivity that permits arbitrary relative orientations between octrees. Based on this encoding we develop interoctree transformations of octants. These form the basis for high-level parallel octree algorithms, which are designed to interact with an application code such as a numerical solver for partial differential equations. We have implemented and tested these algorithms in the p4est software library. We demonstrate the parallel scalability of p4est on its own and in combination with two geophysics codes. Using p4est we generate and adapt multioctree meshes with up to 5.13 x 10(11) octants on as many as 220,320 CPU cores and execute the 2:1 balance algorithm in less than 10 seconds per million octants per process.
286	connectionism	2010	Mohajerani, MH; McVea, DA; Fingas, M; Murphy, TH	Mirrored Bilateral Slow-Wave Cortical Activity within Local Circuits Revealed by Fast Bihemispheric Voltage-Sensitive Dye Imaging in Anesthetized and Awake Mice	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Spontaneous slow-wave oscillations of neuronal membrane potential occur about once every second in the rodent cortex and may serve to shape the efficacy of evoked neuronal responses and consolidate memory during sleep. However, whether these oscillations reflect the entrainment of all cortical regions via propagating waves or whether they exhibit regional and temporal heterogeneity that reflects processing in local cortical circuits is unknown. Using voltage-sensitive dye (VSD) imaging within an adult C57BL/6J mouse cross-midline large craniotomy preparation, we recorded this depolarizing activity across most of both cortical hemispheres simultaneously in both anesthetized and quiet awake animals. Spontaneous oscillations in the VSD signal were highly synchronized between hemispheres, and acallosal I/LnJ mice indicated that synchrony depended on the corpus callosum. In both anesthetized and awake mice (recovered from anesthesia), the oscillations were not necessarily global changes in activity state but were made up of complex local patterns characterized by multiple discrete peaks that were unevenly distributed across cortex. Although the local patterns of depolarizing activity were complex and changed over tens of milliseconds, they were faithfully mirrored in both hemispheres in mice with an intact corpus callosum, to perhaps ensure parallel modification of related circuits in both hemispheres. We conclude that within global rhythms of spontaneous activity are complex events that reflect orchestrated processing within local cortical circuits.
287	connectionism	2005	Krumbholz, K; Schonwiesner, M; von Cramon, DY; Rubsamen, R; Shah, NJ; Zilles, K; Fink, GR	Representation of interaural temporal information from left and right auditory space in the human planum temporale and inferior parietal lobe	CEREBRAL CORTEX	The localization of low-frequency sounds mainly relies on the processing of microsecond temporal disparities between the ears, since low frequencies produce little or no interaural energy differences. The overall auditory cortical response to low-frequency sounds is largely symmetrical between the two hemispheres, even when the sounds are lateralized. However, the effects of unilateral lesions in the superior temporal cortex suggest that the spatial information mediated by lateralized sounds is distributed asymmetrically across the hemispheres. This paper describes a functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment, which shows that the interaural temporal processing of lateralized sounds produces an enhanced response in the contralateral planum temporale (PT). The response is stronger and extends further into adjacent regions of the inferior parietal lobe (IPL) when the sound is moving than when it is stationary. This suggests that the interaural temporal information mediated by lateralized sounds is projected along a posterior pathway comprising the PT and IPL of the respective contralateral hemisphere. The differential responses to moving sounds further revealed that the left hemisphere responded predominantly to sound movement within the right hemifield, whereas the right hemisphere responded to sound movement in both hemifields. This rightward asymmetry parallels the asymmetry associated with the allocation of visuo-spatial attention and may underlie unilateral auditory neglect phenomena.
288	connectionism	2002	Wang, Y; Cuitino, AM	Full-field measurements of heterogeneous deformation patterns on polymeric foams using digital image correlation	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SOLIDS AND STRUCTURES	The ability of a digital image correlation technique to capture the heterogeneous deformation fields appearing during compression of ultra-light open-cell foams is presented in this article. Quantitative characterization of these fields is of importance to understand the mechanical properties of the collapse process and the energy dissipation patterns in this type of materials. The present algorithm is formulated in the context of multi-variable non-linear optimization where a merit function based on a local average of the deformation mapping is minimized implicitly. A parallel implementation utilizing message passing interface for distributed-memory architectures is also discussed. Estimates for optimal size of the correlation window based on measurement accuracy and spatial resolution are provided. This technique is employed to reveal the evolution of the deformation texture on the surface of open-cell polyurethane foam samples of different relative densities. Histograms of the evolution of surface deformation are extracted, showing the transition from unimodal to bimodal and back to unimodal. These results support the interpretation that the collapse of light open-cell foams occurs as a phase transition phenomenon. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
289	connectionism	1992	ELSNER, JB; TSONIS, AA	NONLINEAR PREDICTION, CHAOS, AND NOISE	BULLETIN OF THE AMERICAN METEOROLOGICAL SOCIETY	We present a brief overview ot some new methodologies for making predictions on time-series data. These ideas stem from two rapidly growing fields: nonlinear dynamics (chaos) theory and parallel distributed processing. Examples are presented that show the usefulness of such methods in making short-term predictions. It is suggested that such methodologies are capable of distinguishing between chaos and noise. Implications of these ideas and methods in the study of weather and climate are discussed.
290	connectionism	2010	Liu, JF; Chen, XZ; de la Pena, DM; Christofides, PD	Sequential and Iterative Architectures for Distributed Model Predictive Control of Nonlinear Process Systems	AICHE JOURNAL	In this work, we focus on distributed model predictive control of large scale nonlinear process systems in which several distinct sets of manipulated inputs are used to regulate the process. For each set of manipulated inputs, a different model predictive controller is used to compute the control actions, which is able to communicate with the rest of the controllers in making its decisions. Under the assumption that feedback of the state of the process is available to all the distributed controllers at each sampling time and a model of the plant is available, we propose two different distributed model predictive control architectures. In the first architecture, the distributed controllers use a one-directional communication strategy, are evaluated in sequence and each controller is evaluated only once at each sampling time; in the second architecture, the distributed controllers utilize a hi-directional communication strategy, are evaluated in parallel and iterate to improve closed-loop performance. In the design of the distributed model predictive controllers, Lyapunov-based model predictive control techniques are used. To ensure the stability of the closed-loop system, each model predictive controller in both architectures incorporates a stability constraint which is based on a suitable Lyapunov-based controller. We prove that the proposed distributed model predictive control architectures enforce practical stability in the closed-loop system and optimal performance. The theoretical results are illustrated through a catalytic alkylation of benzene process example. (C) 2010 American Institute of Chemical Engineers AIChE J, 56: 2137-2149,2010
291	connectionism	2008	Horne, JB; van Herwerden, L; Choat, JH; Robertson, DR	High population connectivity across the Indo-Pacific: Congruent lack of phylogeographic structure in three reef fish congeners	MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION	We used the mitochondrial control region and a comparative approach to study the genetic population structure of two surgeonfishes, Naso brevirostris and Naso unicornis, across their Indo-central Pacific ranges. Our purpose was to compare our results with those of a previous study of Naso vlamingii [Klanten, S.O., van Herwerden, L., Choat J.H., 2007. Extreme genetic diversity and temporal rather than spatial partitioning in a widely distributed coral reef fish. Mar. Biol. 150, 659-670] another widely distributed Indo-central Pacific Naso species. We found no evidence of a barrier to gene flow between the Indian and Pacific Oceans for either species, consistent with what was shown for N. vlamingii. Overall, both target species lacked spatial population partitions and probably have complex patterns of gene flow on several spatial scales. Despite the lack of geographic population structure distinct clades were observed in N. brevirostris, similar to those found in N. vlamingii. Coalescence times for intraspecific clades of N. brevirostris and N. vlamingii approximate each other, suggesting parallel evolutionary histories. A bimodal mismatch distribution in N. brevirostris indicates that a biogeographic barrier separated N. brevirostris; populations sometime during its species history. Naso unicornis, in contrast, lacked genetic structure of any kind, although it has what could represent a single surviving clade. Congruent lack of spatial population structure among all three species suggest that such patterns are not due to stochastic processes of DNA mutation and are most likely driven by ecological and environmental factors. (C) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
292	connectionism	2008	Wier, M; Jensen, KO; Andersen, LM; Millock, K	The character of demand in mature organic food markets: Great Britain and Denmark compared	FOOD POLICY	We investigate the organic food market in two selected European countries, Great Britain and Denmark, identifying main differences and similarities. We focus particularly on consumer perceptions and priorities, labelling schemes, and sales channels as a basis for assessing market stability and prospects for future growth. We employ a unique set of household panel data that includes information on stated values and concerns as well as registered purchasing behaviour. Most organic food on both markets is produced and processed by large-scale industrialised units and distributed through mainstream sales channels, consumer confidence being sustained at present by organic labelling schemes that appear to function well. However, a parallel market, based on the supply of goods through various direct sales channels to heavy users, prevails. We find that organic food purchase decisions are primarily motivated by 'private good' attributes such as freshness, taste and health benefits, attributes that may be perceived as being compatible with modern production and sales structure. Mature markets for organic foods nevertheless appear to be vulnerable to consumer dissatisfaction, particularly among heavy users of organic food products. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
293	connectionism	2008	Turner, TL; Levine, MT; Eckert, ML; Begun, DJ	Genomic analysis of adaptive differentiation in Drosophila melanogaster	GENETICS	Drosophila melanogaster shows clinal variation along latitudinal transects on multiple continents for several phenotypes, allozyme variants, sequence variants, and chromosome inversions. Previous investigation suggests that many such clines are due to spatially varying selection rather than demographic history, but the genomic extent of such selection is unknown. To map differentiation throughout the genome, we hybridized DNA from temperate and subtropical populations to Affymetrix tiling arrays. The dense genomic sampling of variants and low level of linkage disequilibrium in D. melanogaster enabled identification of many small, differentiated regions. Many regions are differentiated in parallel in the United States and Australia, strongly supporting the idea that they are influenced by spatially varying selection. Genomic differentiation is distributed nonrandomly with respect to gene function, even in regions differentiated on only one continent, providing further evidence for the role of selection. These data provide candidate genes for phenotypes known to vary clinally and implicate interesting new processes in genotype-by-environment interactions, including chorion proteins, proteins regulating meiotic recombination and segregation, gustatory and olfactory receptors, and proteins affecting synaptic function and behavior. This portrait of differentiation provides a genomic perspective on adaptation and the maintenance of variation through spatially varying selection.
294	connectionism	2006	Marceglia, S; Foffani, G; Bianchi, AM; Baselli, G; Tamma, F; Egidi, M; Priori, A	Dopamine-dependent non-linear correlation between subthalamic rhythms in Parkinson's disease	JOURNAL OF PHYSIOLOGY-LONDON	The basic information architecture in the basal ganglia circuit is under debate. Whereas anatomical studies quantify extensive convergence/divergence patterns in the circuit, suggesting an information sharing scheme, neurophysiological studies report an absence of linear correlation between single neurones in normal animals, suggesting a segregated parallel processing scheme. In 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated monkeys and in parkinsonian patients single neurones become linearly correlated, thus leading to a loss of segregation between neurones. Here we propose a possible integrative solution to this debate, by extending the concept of functional segregation from the cellular level to the network level. To this end, we recorded local field potentials (LFPs) from electrodes implanted for deep brain stimulation (DBS) in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) of parkinsonian patients. By applying bispectral analysis, we found that in the absence of dopamine stimulation STN LFP rhythms became non-linearly correlated, thus leading to a loss of segregation between rhythms. Non-linear correlation was particularly consistent between the low-beta rhythm (13-20 Hz) and the high-beta rhythm (20-35 Hz). Levodopa administration significantly decreased these non-linear correlations, therefore increasing segregation between rhythms. These results suggest that the extensive convergence/divergence in the basal ganglia circuit is physiologically necessary to sustain LFP rhythms distributed in large ensembles of neurones, but is not sufficient to induce correlated firing between neurone pairs. Conversely, loss of dopamine generates pathological linear correlation between neurone pairs, alters the patterns within LFP rhythms, and induces non-linear correlation between LFP rhythms operating at different frequencies. The pathophysiology of information processing in the human basal ganglia therefore involves not only activities of individual rhythms, but also interactions between rhythms.
295	connectionism	2005	Chong, SC; Treisman, A	Attentional spread in the statistical processing of visual displays	PERCEPTION & PSYCHOPHYSICS	We tested the hypothesis that distributing attention over an array of similar items makes its statistical properties automatically available. We found that extracting the mean size of sets of circles was easier to combine with tasks requiring distributed or global attention than with tasks requiring focused attention. One explanation may be that extracting the statistical descriptors requires parallel access to all the information in the array. Consistent with this claim, we found an advantage for simultaneous over successive presentation when the total time available was matched. However, the advantage was small; parallel access facilitates statistical processing without being essential. Evidence that statistical processing is automatic when attention is distributed over a display came from the finding that there was no decrement in accuracy relative to single-task performance when mean judgments were made concurrently with another task that required distributed or global attention.
296	connectionism	1997	Jacobson, MR; Cao, LG; Taneja, K; Singer, RH; Wang, YL; Pederson, T	Nuclear domains of the RNA subunit of RNase P	JOURNAL OF CELL SCIENCE	The ribonucleoprotein enzyme RNase P catalyzes the 5' processing of pre-transfer RNA, and has also recently been implicated in pre-ribosomal RNA processing, In the present investigation, in situ hybridization revealed that RNase P RNA is present throughout the nucleus of mammalian cells, However, rhodamine-labeled human RNase P RNA microinjected into the nucleus of rat kidney (NRK) epithelial cells or human (HeLa) cells initially localized in nucleoli and subsequently became more evenly distributed throughout the nucleus, similar to the steady-state distribution of endogenous RNase P RNA. parallel microinjection and immunocytochemical experiments revealed that initially nucleus-microinjected RNase P RNA localized specifically in the dense fibrillar component of the nucleolus, the site of pre-rRNA processing. A mutant RNase P RNA lacking the To antigen binding domain (nucleotides 25-75) did not localize in nucleoli after nuclear microinjection. In contrast, a truncated RNase P RNA containing the To binding domain but lacking nucleotides 89-341 became rapidly localized in nucleoli following nuclear microinjection. However, unlike the full-length RNase P RNA, this 3' truncated RNA remained stably associated with the nucleoli and did not translocate to the nucleoplasm, These results suggest a nucleolar phase in the maturation, ribonucleoprotein assembly or function of RNase P RNA, mediated at least in part by the nucleolar To antigen, These and other recent findings raise the intriguing possibility of a bifunctional role of RNase P in the nucleus: catalyzing pre-ribosomal RNA processing in the nucleolus and pre-transfer RNA processing in the nucleoplasm.
297	connectionism	1995	STAMHUIS, EJ; VIDELER, JJ	QUANTITATIVE FLOW-ANALYSIS AROUND AQUATIC ANIMALS USING LASER SHEET PARTICLE IMAGE VELOCIMETRY	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL BIOLOGY	Two alternative particle image velocimetry (PIV) methods have been developed, applying laser light sheet illumination of particle-seeded flows around marine organisms, Successive video images, recorded perpendicular to a light sheet parallel to the main stream, were digitized and processed to map the how velocity in two-dimensional planes, In particle tracking velocimetry (PTV), displacements of single particles in two subsequent images were determined semi-automatically, resulting in flow diagrams consisting of non-uniformly distributed velocity vectors, Application of grid-cell averaging resulted in pow field diagrams with uniform vector distribution, In sub-image correlation PIV (SCPIV), repetitive convolution filtering of small sub-areas of two subsequent images resulted in automatic determination of cross-correlation peaks, yielding flow field diagrams with regularly spaced velocity vectors, In both PTV and SCPIV, missing values, caused by incomplete particle displacement information in some areas of the images or due to rejection of some erroneous vectors by the vector validation procedure, were interpolated using a two-dimensional spline interpolation technique. The resultant vector how fields were used to study the spatial distribution of velocity, spatial acceleration, vorticity, strain and shear, These flow fields could also be used to test for flow in the third dimension by studying the divergence, and to detect the presence and location of vortices, The results offer detailed quantitative descriptions of the flow morphology and can be used to assess dissipated energy, The versatile character of the technique makes it applicable to a wide range of fluid mechanical subjects within biological research, So far it has been successfully applied to map the flow around swimming copepods, fish larvae and juvenile fish and the ventilation current of a tube-living shrimp.
298	connectionism	2007	Tang, J; Lim, MH; Ong, YS	Diversity-adaptive parallel memetic algorithm for solving large scale combinatorial optimization problems	SOFT COMPUTING	Parallel memetic algorithms (PMAs) are a class of modern parallel meta-heuristics that combine evolutionary algorithms, local search, parallel and distributed computing technologies for global optimization. Recent studies on PMAs for large-scale complex combinatorial optimization problems have shown that they converge to high quality solutions significantly faster than canonical GAs and MAs. However, the use of local learning for every individual throughout the PMA search can be a very computationally intensive and inefficient process. This paper presents a study on two diversity-adaptive strategies, i.e., (1) diversity-based static adaptive strategy (PMA-SLS) and (2) diversity-based dynamic adaptive strategy (PMA-DLS) for controlling the local search frequency in the PMA search. Empirical study on a class of NP-hard combinatorial optimization problem, particularly large-scale quadratic assignment problems (QAPs) shows that the diversity-adaptive PMA converges to competitive solutions at significantly lower computational cost when compared to the canonical MA and PMA. Furthermore, it is found that the diversity-based dynamic adaptation strategy displays better robustness in terms of solution quality across the class of QAP problems considered. Static adaptation strategy on the other hand requires extra effort in selecting suitable parameters to suit the problems in hand.
299	connectionism	2004	Dierick, M; Masschaele, B; Van Hoorebeke, L	Octopus, a fast and user-friendly tomographic reconstruction package developed in LabView (R)	MEASUREMENT SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY	A new software package called Octopus was developed for tomographic reconstruction of parallel beam projection data and fan beam data. It was written entirely in LabView(R). It has a full graphical user interface and a high level of automation while allowing every processing step to be manually controlled. Octopus displays some unique features such as dual-energy tomography for element-sensitive investigations. Most importantly it features distributed reconstruction over a network using a server-client architecture with negligible network delays reducing reconstruction times almost proportionally to the number of clients. Octopus runs independently in a Window(R) environment.
300	connectionism	1996	Penny, W; Frost, D	Neural networks in clinical medicine	MEDICAL DECISION MAKING	Neural networks are parallel, distributed, adaptive information-processing systems that develop their functionality in response to exposure to information. This paper is a tutorial for researchers intending to use neural nets for medical decision-making applications. It includes detailed discussion of the issues particularly relevant to medical data as well as wider issues relevant to any neural net application. The article is restricted to back-propagation learning in multilayer perceptrons, as this is the neural net model most widely used in medical applications.
301	distributed	2007	Wilson, JR; Farrington-Darby, T; Cox, G; Bye, R; Hockey, GRJ	The railway as a socio-technical system: human factors at the heart of successful rail engineering	PROCEEDINGS OF THE INSTITUTION OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERS PART F-JOURNAL OF RAIL AND RAPID TRANSIT	High-quality engineering and operations management are key to meeting all the requirements of a successful railway-quality of service, reliable and safe performance, and maximum possible use of capacity. However, the railway is a socio-technical system and therefore has human factors at its core, which requires a strong integrated ergonomics contribution. Moreover, this contribution must be at a systems level rather than providing point solutions to particular equipment, interface, workplace, or job problems. This paper draws from the first two human factors projects in the EPSRC Rail Research UK programme, interpreting them for an engineering audience. The paper first emphasizes and gives examples of the need for a systems ergonomics contribution to engineering an improved railway. Then the available literature is summarized in a structured fashion. Finally, a short summary is provided of the research which has started to develop a distributed cognition model of work on the railways, especially across functional groups of signalling, control, and train driving.
302	distributed	2012	Collins, SA; Mamykina, L; Jordan, D; Stein, DM; Shine, A; Reyfman, P; Kaufman, D	In search of common ground in handoff documentation in an Intensive Care Unit	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	Objective: Handoff is an intra-disciplinary process, yet the flow of critical handoff information spans multiple disciplines. Understanding this information flow is important for the development of computer-based tools that supports the communication and coordination of patient care in a multi-disciplinary and highly specialized critical care setting. We aimed to understand the structure, functionality, and content of nurses' and physicians' handoff artifacts. Design: We analyzed 22 nurses' and physicians' handoff artifacts from a Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit (CTICU) at a large urban medical center. We combined artifact analysis with semantic coding based on our published Interdisciplinary Handoff Information Coding (IHIC) framework for a novel two-step data analysis approach. Results: We found a high degree of structure and overlap in the content of nursing and physician artifacts. Our findings demonstrated a non-technical, yet sophisticated, system with a high degree of structure for the organization and communication of patient data that functions to coordinate the work of multiple disciplines in a highly specialized unit of patient care. Limitations: This study took place in one CTICU. Further work is needed to determine the generalizability of the results. Conclusions: Our findings indicate that the development of semi-structured patient-centered interdisciplinary handoff tools with discipline specific views customized for specialty settings may effectively support handoff communication and patient safety. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
303	distributed	2008	Button, G	Against 'distributed cognition'	THEORY CULTURE & SOCIETY	Since its origination in psychology, cognitive theory has been articulated in a number of social science disciplines, most notably anthropology and sociology. It has also been important in shaping the intellectual landscape of emerging disciplines associated with the design of computer systems, human-computer interaction (HCI) and computer supported cooperative work (CSCW). Some people within these disciplines, however, have accepted the criticism of cognitive theory that its emphasis upon the existence and primacy of an interior world does not appreciate the public, cultural and situated grounding of human action. In the theory of 'distributed cognition' they believe, however, that they have found reconciliation between cognitive theory and their understanding of the cultural and social grounds of human action. It is argued here that the hopes for reconciliation are, however, misplaced. There are two main reasons for this. First, 'distributed cognition' is, simply, cognitive theory. Distributed cognition is an attempt to describe the cultural world in the terms of cognitive theory, not an attempt to describe it in its own terms. Thus it is shown that the criticisms of cognitive theory, that it is founded in a conceptually inappropriate distinction between an interior and a public world, are criticisms of distributed cognition. Second, distributed cognition does not actually explain anything about the social world. It is quite possible to subtract the statements about cognitive systems from descriptions of the social world without altering those descriptions one jot. It is thus concluded that distributed cognition is not a cultural overhaul of cognitive theory but an erroneous attempt to describe the cultural and social world in the terms of an illegitimate cognitive theory.
304	distributed	2006	Blandford, A; Furniss, D	DiCoT: A methodology for applying Distributed Cognition to the design of teamworking systems	INTERACTIVE SYSTEMS: DESIGN, SPECIFICATION, AND VERIFICATION	Distributed Cognition is growing in popularity as a way of reasoning about group working and the design of artefacts within work systems. DiCoT (Distributed Cognition for Teamwork) is a methodology and representational system we are developing to support distributed cognition analysis of small team working. It draws on ideas from Contextual Design, but re-orients them towards the principles that are central to Distributed Cognition. When used to reason about possible changes to the design of a system, it also draws on Claims Analysis to reason about the likely effects of changes from a Distributed Cognition perspective. The approach has been developed and tested within a large, busy ambulance control centre. It supports reasoning about both existing system design and possible future designs.
305	distributed	2004	Ziemke, T; Bergfeldt, N; Buason, G; Susi, T; Svensson, H	Evolving cognitive scaffolding and environment adaptation: a new research direction for evolutionary robotics	CONNECTION SCIENCE	Many researchers in embodied cognitive science and artificial intelligence, and evolutionary robotics in particular, emphasize the interaction of brain, body and environment as crucial to the emergence of intelligent, adaptive behaviour. Accordingly, the interaction between agent and environment, as well as the co-adaptation of artificial brains and bodies, has been the focus of much research in evolutionary robotics. Hence, there are plenty of studies of robotic agents/species adapting to a given environment. Many animals, on the other hand, in particular humans, to some extent can choose to adapt the environment to their own needs instead of adapting (only) themselves. That alternative has been studied relatively little in robot experiments. This paper, therefore, presents some simple initial simulation experiments, in a delayed response task setting, that illustrate how the evolution of environment adaptation can serve to provide cognitive scaffolding that reduces the requirements for individual agents. Furthermore, theoretical implications, open questions and future research directions for evolutionary robotics are discussed.
306	distributed	2004	Cronin, B	Bowling alone together: Academic writing as distributed cognition	JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR INFORMATION SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY	The twentieth century saw the progressive collectivization of science-dramatic growth in teamwork in general and large-scale collaboration in particular. Cognitive partnering in the conduct of research and scholarship has become commonplace, and this trend is reflected in rates of co-authorship and sub-authorship collaboration. The effects of these developments on academic writing are discussed and theorized in terms of distributed cognition.
307	distributed	1998	Moore, JL; Rocklin, TR	The distribution of distributed cognition: Multiple interpretations and uses	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	We argue that greater precision is needed in the use of the term distributed cognition if this perspective is to significantly impact educational research. We describe a continuum of interpretations of distributed cognition ranging from a conceptualization of cognition as an individual phenomenon that is influenced by factors external to the individual, to a conceptualization of cognition as a social phenomenon that cannot be reduced to individual psychological constructs. We discuss the issues raised by the papers in the current volume, and locate the perspectives taken in these papers along the distributed cognition continuum. The relationship between distributed cognition and situated cognition is then examined, as these terms are often used interchangeably. Finally, we discuss key issues for further research in distributed cognition.
308	distributed	2009	Steffensen, SV	Language, languaging, and the Extended Mind Hypothesis	PRAGMATICS & COGNITION	After a brief summary of Andy Clark's book, Supersizing the Mind (2008) I address Clark's approach to language which I argue to be inadequate. Clark is criticized for reifying language, thus neglecting that it is an interpersonal activity, not a stable system of symbols. With a starting point in language as a social phenomenon, I suggest an ecological approach to the extended mind hypothesis, arguing against Clark's assumption that the extended mind is necessarily brain-centered.
309	distributed	2004	Wheeler, M	Is language the ultimate artefact?	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Andy Clark has argued that language is "in many ways the ultimate artefact" (Clark, 1997, p. 218). Fuelling this conclusion is a view according to which the human brain is essentially no more than a pattern-completing device, while language is an external resource which is adaptively fitted to the human brain in such a way that it enables that brain to exceed its unaided (pattern-completing) cognitive capacities, in much the same way as a pair of scissors enables us to "exploit our basic manipulative capacities to fulfil new ends" (Clark, 1997, pp. 193-194). How should we respond to this bold reconceptualization of our linguistic abilities? First we need to understand it properly. So I begin by identifying and unpacking (and making a small "Heideggerian" amendment to) Clark's main language-specific claims. That done I take a step back. Clark's approach to language is generated from a theoretical perspective which sees cognition as distributed over brain, body, and world. So I continue my investigation of Clark's incursion into linguistic territory by uncovering and illustrating those key ideas from the overall distributed cognition research programme which are particularly relevant in the present context. I then use this analysis as a spring-board from which to examine a crucial issue that arises for Clark's account of language, namely linguistic inner rehearsal. I argue that while there is much to recommend in Clark's treatment of this issue, some significant difficulties remain to be overcome. Via this critique of Clark's position, alongside some proposals for how the revealed problems might be addressed, I hope to edge us that bit closer to a full understanding of our linguistic abilities. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
310	distributed	1995	PATEL, VL; KAUFMAN, DR; AROCHA, JF	STEERING THROUGH THE MURKY WATERS OF A SCIENTIFIC CONFLICT - SITUATED AND SYMBOLIC MODELS OF CLINICAL COGNITION	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN MEDICINE	The situated action perspective, which embraces a diversity of views, challenges several of the fundamental assumptions of the symbolic information-processing framework underlying cognitive science and artificial intelligence. In this paper, we consider the following issues: symbolic representations, plans and actions, distributed cognition, and the transfer of learning. We evaluate each of these issues in terms of research and theories in clinical cognition and examine the implications for education and training, and for the integration of intelligent systems in medical practice. We argue for a reconceptualization of the symbolic framework in terms of the way the role of internal representations and cognitive activities are perceived. However, symbolic representations are integral to medical cognition and should continue to be central in any theoretical framework. A re-examination of cognitive science in medicine in terms of the relationship among physicians, technology, and the workplace could prove to be constructive in bridging the gap between theory and practice.
311	distributed	2010	Rupert, RD	Extended cognition and the priority of cognitive systems	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	This essay begins by addressing the role of the so-called Parity Principle in arguments for extended cognition. It is concluded that the Parity Principle does not, by itself, demarcate cognition and that another mark of the cognitive must be sought. The second section of the paper advances two arguments against the extended view of cognition, one of which - the conservatism-or-simplicity argument - appeals to principles of theory selection, and the other of which - the argument from demarcation - draws on a systems-based theory of cognition. The final section contests the claim, made by Andy Clark, that empirical work done by Wayne Gray and colleagues supports the extended view. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
312	distributed	2009	Broth, M	Seeing through screens, hearing through speakers: Managing distant studio space in television control room interaction	JOURNAL OF PRAGMATICS	This paper explores how an only partially visible and audible television studio space can be accountably understood from the perspective of a television control room. A proper grasp of the studio space is necessary for understanding, for example, who is talking to whom in the studio, and the position of camera operators relative to both one another and the people they are filming. Such an understanding is crucial for the on-line collaborative editing of the studio interaction, in a way that is intelligible for the audience of viewers. Based on video-recordings of the control room and the studio interaction during the live production of the French interview program Rideau Rouge, this study describes some of the multi-modal resources and practices that the personnel in the control room mobilize for resolving, in interaction, practical problems pertaining to the studio space, e.g. how they manage to show relevant participants, show participants from complementary angles, and direct camera operators to produce specific shots. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
313	distributed	2003	Cowley, S; Spurrett, D	Putting apes (body and language) together again	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	It is argued that the account of Savage-Rumbaugh's ape language research in Savage-Rumbaugh, Shanker and Taylor (1998, Apes, Language and the Human Mind. Oxford University Press, Oxford) is profitably read in the terms of the theoretical developed in Clark (1997, Being There, Putting Brain, Body and World Together Again, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA). The former work details some striking results concerning chimpanzee and bonobo subjects, trained to make use of keyboards containing 'lexigram' symbols. The authors, though, make heavy going of a critique of what they take to be standard approaches to understanding language and cognition in animals, and fail to offer a worthwhile theoretical position from which to make sense of their own data. It is suggested that the achievements of Savage-Rumbaugh's non-human subjects suggest that language ability need not be explained by reference to specialised brain capacities. The contribution made by Clark's work is to show the range of ways in which cognition exploits bodily and environmental resources. This model of 'distributed' cognition helps make sense of the lexigram activity of Savage-Rumbaugh's subjects, and points to a re-evaluation of the language behaviour of humans.
314	distributed	2003	Bang, M; Timpka, T	Cognitive tools in medical teamwork: The spatial arrangement of patient records	METHODS OF INFORMATION IN MEDICINE	Objectives. As a preliminary for the design of Computer-Based Patient Records, the aim of this paper is to build on understanding of the roles physical artifacts like paper-based patient records play in supporting cognition and collaboration in the health-care settings. Method: A small ethnographically-informed study was conducted in the emergency room at a 250-bed hospital in Sweden from the perspective of Distributed Cognition. Results: To track work-in-progress, clinicians placed patient records on a desk to form a shared public display that represented the current problem state for the health-care team. The results of the study suggest that the patient records and other physical artifacts are used by clinicians in different ways to form cognitive tools that offload memory tasks and support joint attention and collaboration. Conclusion: To design Computer-Based Patient Records that more appropriately support cognition and teamwork, it is important to investigate how clinicians make use of the paper-based patient records. Practitioners take advantage of existing tools frequently to deal with cognitively demanding tasks and collaboration issues.
315	distributed	2001	Aakhus, M	Technocratic and design stances toward communication expertise: How GDSS facilitators understand their work	JOURNAL OF APPLIED COMMUNICATION RESEARCH	This study investigates the shared, and often unstated, premises that frame the expert communication servicing of meeting facilitators who implement group decision support systems (GDSS). Nine premises about facilitating communication were reconstructed from the way practitioners use the concept "process" to describe the expert servicing they perform. The premises reveal how the facilitators treat an analytic distinction between process and content to be a natural fact about communication. This factual presumption entails a nascent philosophy of practice- "process management"-that facilitators use to persuade clients, and practitioners, about the trustworthiness and credibility of their servicing. The ironic consequence of this philosophy is the denial of the very influence and expert judgment they exercise in their professional action, This is not only problematic for individual practitioners and consumers of facilitation services but for the development of facilitation practice itself. The implications of this analysis for facilitation practice and applied communication research are discussed in terms of a "design stance" toward communication expertise which is an alternative to the "technocratic stance" that currently frames practitioner, consumer, and research interests in GDSS facilitators.
316	distributed	2013	Plant, KL; Stanton, NA	The explanatory power of Schema Theory: theoretical foundations and future applications in Ergonomics	ERGONOMICS	Schema Theory is intuitively appealing although it has not always received positive press; critics of the approach argue that the concept is too ambiguous and vague and there are inherent difficulties associated with measuring schemata. As such, the term schema can be met with scepticism and wariness. The purpose of this paper is to address the criticisms that have been levelled at Schema Theory by demonstrating how Schema Theory has been utilised in Ergonomics research, particularly in the key areas of situation awareness, naturalistic decision making and error. The future of Schema Theory is also discussed in light of its potential roles as a unifying theory in Ergonomics and in contributing to our understanding of distributed cognition. We conclude that Schema Theory has made a positive contribution to Ergonomics and with continued refinement of methods to infer and represent schemata it is likely that this trend will continue. Practitioner Summary: This paper reviews the contribution that Schema Theory has made to Ergonomics research. The criticisms of the theory are addressed using examples from the areas of situation awareness, decision making and error.
317	distributed	2008	Roepstorff, A	Things to think with: words and objects as material symbols	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	This paper integrates archaeology, anthropology and functional brain imaging in an examination of the cognition of words and objects. Based on a review of recent brain imaging experiments, it is argued that in cognition and action, material symbols may be the link between internal representations and objects and words in the world. This principle is applied to the sapient paradox, the slow development of material innovation at the advent of the anatomically modern human. This translates the paradox into a long-term build-up of extended and distributed cognition supported by development in the complexity of material symbols.
318	distributed	2007	Michalowski, MP; Sabanovic, S; DiSalvo, C; Busquets, D; Hiatt, LM; Melchior, NA; Simmons, R	Socially distributed perception: GRACE plays social tag at AAAI 2005	AUTONOMOUS ROBOTS	This paper presents a robot search task (social tag) that uses social interaction, in the form of asking for help, as an integral component of task completion. Socially distributed perception is defined as a robot's ability to augment its limited sensory capacities through social interaction. We describe the task of social tag and its implementation on the robot GRACE for the AAAI 2005 Mobile Robot Competition & Exhibition. We then discuss our observations and analyses of GRACE's performance as a situated interaction with conference participants. Our results suggest we were successful in promoting a form of social interaction that allowed people to help the robot achieve its goal. Furthermore, we found that different social uses of the physical space had an effect on the nature of the interaction. Finally, we discuss the implications of this design approach for effective and compelling human-robot interaction, considering its relationship to concepts such as dependency, mixed initiative, and socially distributed cognition.
319	distributed	2007	Chandrasekharan, S; Stewart, TC	The origin of epistemic structures and proto-representations	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Organisms across species use the strategy of generating structures in their environment to lower cognitive complexity. Examples include pheromones, markers, color codes, etc. We provide a model of how such structures originate, and present a simulation where organisms with only reactive behavior learn, within their lifetime, to add such structures to their world to lower cognitive load. This implementation is then extended to show that the same underlying process could generate internal traces of the world (memories) in an internal environment. This model provides a novel account of the origin of internal representations. Further, as both external and internal traces are generated using the same mechanism, the model shows how an extended mind could be implemented. Also, as the stored internal traces develop entirely out of actions, these action components could be activated implicitly. This feature explains the origin of enactable and action-oriented mental content, suggested by recent experiments.
320	distributed	2004	Spurrett, D; Cowley, SJ	How to do things without words: infants, utterance-activity and distributed cognition	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Clark and Chalmers [Analysis 58 (1998) 7] defend the hypothesis of an 'extended mind', maintaining that beliefs and other paradigmatic mental states can be implemented outside the central nervous system or body. Aspects of the problem of 'language acquisition' are considered in the light of the extended mind hypothesis. Rather than 'language' as typically understood, the object of study is something called 'utterance-activity', a term of art intended to refer to the full range of kinetic and prosodic features of the on-line behaviour of interacting humans. It is argued that utterance-activity is plausibly regarded as jointly controlled by the embodied activity of interacting people, and that it contributes to the control of their behaviour. By means of specific examples it is suggested that this complex joint control facilitates easier learning of at least some features of language. This in turn suggests a striking form of the extended mind, in which infants' cognitive powers are augmented by those of the people with whom they interact. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
321	distributed	2002	van der Meij, H; Boersma, K	Email use in elementary school: an analysis of exchange patterns and content	BRITISH JOURNAL OF EDUCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY	Email was embedded in a project in design and technology education in elementary school. During four lessons children worked in groups on building a flying object. These groups communicated through email with groups of children from another school. The analyses of the emails, as viewed from distributed cognition theory, focus on the exchange patterns and content. Two characteristic exchange patterns are stacking and compounding. In stacking emails are sent out quickly enough to afford a "just-in-time" exchange of information. In compounding the emails transcend lessons. An "old" section of the email reacts to the partner's email about a previous lesson. A "new" section deals with the current lesson. Question-answer exchanges accounted for only about 15% of the communications. Connected discourse with explicit or implicit references to the partner's email was likewise scarce. Groups mainly connected to each other through adoption, leading to shared scenarios of "We tell you our story-You tell us yours". The conclusion discusses the impact of the task on the children's communication. Among others, a precise definition and teaming of the task is deemed necessary to favour embedded email use. Because the genre of email use in elementary school is yet to be defined the authors caution against imposing many constraints on what children write to each other.
322	distributed	2001	Xiao, Y; Lasome, C; Moss, J; Mackenzie, CF; Faraj, S	Cognitive properties of a whiteboard: A case study in a trauma centre	ECSCW 2001: PROCEEDINGS OF THE SEVENTH EUROPEAN CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER SUPPORTED COOPERATIVE WORK	Distributed cognition as an approach to collaborative work holds that a work unit is cognitive system in which cognitive activities are carried out jointly by workers with the use of tools. This approach has several direct implications to the study of collaborative work. In this paper, we analysed staff interactions with a large display board in a Level I trauma centre operating room unit. Coordination needs are exacerbated by the unpredictability of incoming emergency surgery patients admitted to the trauma centre as well as other contingencies (such as changes in scheduled surgery cases or staffing). The public display board has evolved into a key component for supporting collaborative work. The physical and perceptual properties of the board are exploited by the clinicians to support rapid paced, highly dynamic work. The canvas-like appearances of the display board, combined with magnetic objects attached to the board, afford its users to taylor the board as an effective coordinative tool and to invent new ways of representing information. Based on the concept of display-based cognition, our analysis illustrates the role of public displays in facilitating negotiation of scheduling, joint planning, and augmenting inter-personal communication.
323	distributed	1999	Patel, VL; Kaufman, DR; Allen, VG; Shortliffe, EH; Cimino, JJ; Greenes, RA	Toward a framework for computer-mediated collaborative design in medical informatics	METHODS OF INFORMATION IN MEDICINE	The development and implementation of enabling tools and methods that provide ready access to knowledge and information are among the central goals of medical informatics. The need for multi-institutional collaboration in the development of such tools and methods is increasingly being recognized. Collaboration involves communication, which typically involves individuals who work together at the same location. With the evolution of electronic modalities for communication, we seek to understand the role that such technologies can play in supporting collaboration, especially when the participants are geographically separated. Using the InterMed Collaboratory as a subject of study, we have analyzed their activities as an exercise in computer- and network-mediated collaborative design. We report on the cognitive, sociocultural, and logistical issues encountered when scientists from diverse organizations a nd backgrounds use communications technologies while designing and implementing shared products. Results demonstrate that it is important to match carefully the content with the mode of communication, identifying, for example, suitable uses of E-mail, conference calls, and face-to-face meetings. The special role of leaders in guiding and facilitating the group activities can also be seen, regardless of the communication setting in which the interactions occur. Most important is the proper use of technology to support the evolution of a shared vision of group goals and methods, an element that is clearly necessary before successful collaborative designs can proceed.
324	distributed	2014	Banks, VA; Stanton, NA; Harvey, C	Sub-systems on the road to vehicle automation: Hands and feet free but not 'mind' free driving	SAFETY SCIENCE	Automation essentially enables drivers to become "hands and feet free" but not necessarily "mind-free" during vehicle operation and on these grounds, increased vehicle automation may contribute to safety concerns rather than overcome them. Although automated systems were originally designed to improve driver safety by reducing driver fatigue, stress and ultimately error, there is growing concern within the Ergonomics and Human Factors community that automation may introduce additional complexity into the driving task placing increased pressure on drivers to monitor both the environment and behaviour of vehicle sub-systems. This paper considers how increasing the level of automation within the sub-tasks of driving may affect the traditional role of the driver. Using the Distributed Cognition approach and Operator Sequence Diagrams as a representational aid, this paper indicates that the level at which automation is set significantly affects the dynamism of the system network. (c) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
325	distributed	2013	Kirsh, D	Embodied Cognition and the Magical Future of Interaction Design	ACM TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTER-HUMAN INTERACTION	The theory of embodied cognition can provide HCI practitioners and theorists with new ideas about interaction and new principles for better designs. I support this claim with four ideas about cognition: (1) interacting with tools changes the way we think and perceive - tools, when manipulated, are soon absorbed into the body schema, and this absorption leads to fundamental changes in the way we perceive and conceive of our environments; (2) we think with our bodies not just with our brains; (3) we know more by doing than by seeing - there are times when physically performing an activity is better than watching someone else perform the activity, even though our motor resonance system fires strongly during other person observation; (4) there are times when we literally think with things. These four ideas have major implications for interaction design, especially the design of tangible, physical, context aware, and telepresence systems.
326	distributed	2013	Kannampallil, TG; Franklin, A; Mishra, R; Almoosa, KF; Cohen, T; Patel, VL	Understanding the nature of information seeking behavior in critical care: Implications for the design of health information technology	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN MEDICINE	Objective: Information in critical care environments is distributed across multiple sources, such as paper charts, electronic records, and support personnel. For decision-making tasks, physicians have to seek, gather, filter and organize information from various sources in a timely manner. The objective of this research is to characterize the nature of physicians' information seeking process, and the content and structure of clinical information retrieved during this process. Method: Eight medical intensive care unit physicians provided a verbal think-aloud as they performed a clinical diagnosis task. Verbal descriptions of physicians' activities, sources of information they used, time spent on each information source, and interactions with other clinicians were captured for analysis. The data were analyzed using qualitative and quantitative approaches. Results: We found that the information seeking process was exploratory and iterative and driven by the contextual organization of information. While there was no significant differences between the overall time spent paper or electronic records, there was marginally greater relative information gain (i.e., more unique information retrieved per unit time) from electronic records (t(6) = 1.89, p = 0.1). Additionally, information retrieved from electronic records was at a higher level (i.e., observations and findings) in the knowledge structure than paper records, reflecting differences in the nature of knowledge utilization across resources. Conclusion: A process of local optimization drove the information seeking process: physicians utilized information that maximized their information gain even though it required significantly more cognitive effort. Implications for the design of health information technology solutions that seamlessly integrate information seeking activities within the workflow, such as enriching the clinical information space and supporting efficient clinical reasoning and decision-making, are discussed. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
327	distributed	2012	Steffensen, SV	Care and conversing in dialogical systems	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	This article promotes a point of view on human interaction in terms of dialogical systems. The approach draws on recent, so-called third wave, developments in cognitive science. After an introduction to three waves in cognitive science, and their counterparts in linguistics, the article is placed in a tradition that is ecological, embodied and distributed. Its specific take on human interaction pursues these perspectives by claiming that language can neither be reduced to social rules in the micro-sociological domain, nor to biological properties of the individual being. As an alternative to these two positions, a theory of dialogical systems is developed, on the basis of current thinking within the enactive program (e.g. De Jaegher and Di Paolo, 2007), the distributed language movement (e.g. Cowley, 2011b), and values-realizing theory (e.g. Hodges, 2009). Dialogical systems are systems of co-present human beings engaged in interactivity that bring forth situated behavioural coordination (or a communicative, structural coupling). Dialogical systems, however, have emergent properties irreducible to individual actions or microsocial norms. Among the emergent properties one find a tendency to establish and uphold equilibriums that balance between various, at times opposing, values and tensions. This approach is exemplified through an analysis of a real-life conversation between a mother and a health visitor. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
328	distributed	2009	Hartley, D	Education policy, distributed leadership and socio-cultural theory	EDUCATIONAL REVIEW	A current characteristic of governance in the public services in England is the advocacy of a permeation of once-discrete organizational and professional structures. New configurations are being called for. Examples are extended schools, workforce re-modelling, and multi-agency working. At issue here is a further indication of this loosening of hitherto discrete roles and structures: that of distributed leadership. When formulated, all of these policies lacked an evidence-base which justified them. To some extent this was due to a weak theoretical base. Emerging as a prominent theoretical position to inform distributed leadership is socio-cultural theory, which includes distributed cognition and activity theory. Two conclusions are drawn from the study here. First, an analysis of the most important contribution to this research - that generated by Spillane and his colleagues in the US - points up some important discontinuities between the socio-cultural approach adopted and its empirical endeavours. That is to say, whilst adhering to a socio-cultural position which regards only process as having any ontological status, Spillane's research nevertheless appears to assign ontological status also to individual agents. Second, in contrast to Engestrom's socio-cultural activity theory, Spillane's socio-cultural approach under-theorizes the question of power in distributed leadership.
329	distributed	2009	Villeneuve, M	A critical examination of school-based occupational therapy collaborative consultation	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY-REVUE CANADIENNE D ERGOTHERAPIE	Background. Although collaborative consultation has been widely adopted in school-based occupational therapy practice, there is limited conceptual understanding of how collaboration contributes to educationally relevant outcomes for students with disabilities. Even without a clear understanding of the evidence related to school-based occupational therapy services, there continue to be decisions about funding and delivery of services. Purpose. This paper synthesizes and critically appraises the research literature on collaborative consultation services in school-based occupational therapy in order to provide program administrators with direction for critically examining decision making for service delivery in their districts. Key Issues. Advancing occupational therapy practice in education settings requires a sound theoretical understanding of collaborative consultation. Distributed cognition offers a more robust understanding of the relationship between educator-therapist collaboration and outcomes of school-based occupational therapy services. Implications. This review concludes with two fundamental conditions necessary for collaboration between educators and occupational therapists to flourish.
330	distributed	2007	Wilson, S; Galliers, J; Fone, J	Cognitive artifacts in support of medical shift handover: An in use, in situ evaluation	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	Technologies introduced to support complex and critical work practices merit rigorous and effective evaluation. However, evaluation strategies often fall short of evaluating real use by practitioners in the workplace and thereby miss an opportunity to gauge the true impact of the technology on the work. This article reports an in use, in situ evaluation of 2 cognitive artifacts that support the everyday work of handover in a healthcare setting. The evaluation drew inspiration from the theoretical viewpoint offered by distributed cognition, focusing on the information content, representational media, and context of use of the artifacts. The article discusses how this approach led to insights about the artifacts and their support of the work that could not have been obtained with more traditional evaluation techniques. Specifically, the argument is made that the ubiquitous approach of user testing with its reliance on think-alouds and observations of interaction is inadequate in this context and set an initial agenda for issues that should be addressed by in use, in situ evaluations.
331	distributed	2004	Ross, D	Metalinguistic signalling for coordination amongst social agents	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	This paper argues that critics of the established paradigm in linguistics exaggerate if they go so far as to doubt that natural language are systems for digital signalling. On the contrary, explaining how digital signalling is possible amongst creatures-H. sapiens-whose brains are probably not serial processors remains a primary task for cognitive science. In the context of accounts of mind based on the distributed cognition model, the appropriate technology for this task is evolutionary game theory. I show how evolutionary game theory can be used to state Dennett's theory of the relationship between language and the etiology of the human narrative self more precisely than Dennett has done. I conclude by responding to some questions posed by Clark (2002) on the extent to which Dermett's theory of the self implies that possession of language confers unique cognitive capacities on humans. It does so in suggesting that, in terms of the view defended in this paper, humans can use digital signalling to play strategic games that have as outcomes games in which the players are transformed into agents with different utility functions and, hence, new identities. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
332	distributed	2004	Peltokorpi, V	Transactive memory directories in small work units	PERSONNEL REVIEW	Despite the increased importance for companies to control their intangible assets, little empirical research has been made on the linkages between single and distributed cognition in organizations. In this paper, the transactive memory concept is extended and adapted to examine the antecedents and consequences of directory formation in the Nordic subsidiaries in Japan. Value congruence, psychological safety, organizational commitment, and interpersonal and electronic communication are proposed to have a positive impact on directories. The directories are proposed to have positive linkage with service capital Regression analyses show that the most of the independent variables have a statistically significant relationship with directories. Further, interpersonal communication mediates the impact of value congruence and psychological safety to directories. Directories were also found to have a positive relationship with the service capital.
333	distributed	1995	Ross, S; Ramage, M; Rogers, Y	PETRA: Participatory evaluation through redesign and analysis	INTERACTING WITH COMPUTERS	Compared with single user-computer interactions, evaluating multi-user-computer interactions is much more complex. We argue for multiplicity - of theory, method and perspective - in the evaluation of computer-supported collaborative work (CSCW). This allows us to address both theoretical concerns and practical design issues, and to incorporate the expertise and experiences of both researchers and participants. We propose the PETRA framework, incorporating a theoretically-driven evaluators' perspective to investigate the collaborative activity, and a design-based, user-focused participants' perspective to evaluate the supporting tool. Our study investigated collaborative writing, both in a face-to-face context, and supported by a computer-based group editor. In our instantiation of the PETRA framework, we used distributed cognition and a form of breakdown analysis to investigate the development of shared understanding in the two different mediating settings; and devised a rapid prototyping session (inspired by participatory design) to elicit participant reactions to and redesigns of the tool interface. Our findings show that computer-supported shared understanding develops technologically, using social coordination as a repair mechanism; and that the collaborative tool must be particularly sensitive to issues of awareness, communication, focus and ownership.
334	distributed	1992	DILLENBOURG, P; SELF, JA	PEOPLE POWER - A HUMAN-COMPUTER COLLABORATIVE LEARNING-SYSTEM	LECTURE NOTES IN COMPUTER SCIENCE	This paper reports our research work in the new field of human-computer collaborative learning (HCCL). The general architecture of an HCCL is defined. An HCCL system, called People Power, has been implemented in CLOS. It contains a micro-world in which the learner can create an electoral system and simulate elections. The learner's task is to infer relations between the features of the electoral system and the distribution of seats. The human learner collaborates with a computational learner. The collaboration between learners is modelled as 'socially distributed cognition' (SDC). We view a pair of learners as a single cognitive agent whose components are distributed over two brains. This model maps inter-people and intra-people communication processes and thereby proposes an explanation of how the former generates the latter: the pattern of arguments that emerge from dialogue is reused by the artificial learner when it reasons alone. Reasoning is implemented as a dialogue with oneself. We report some results of the first experiments we have conducted.
335	distributed	2013	Alvarez, C; Salavati, S; Nussbaum, M; Milrad, M	Collboard: Fostering new media literacies in the classroom through collaborative problem solving supported by digital pens and interactive whiteboards	COMPUTERS & EDUCATION	Education systems worldwide must strive to support the teaching of a set of New Media Literacies (NMLs). These literacies respond to the need for educating human capital within participatory cultures in a highly technologized world. In this paper, we present Collboard, a constructivist problem solving activity for fostering the development of specific NMLs in classrooms: collective intelligence, distributed cognition and transmedia navigation. Collboard encompasses successive individual and collaborative work phases that prompt active student participation and engagement. It integrates digitally augmented appliances, namely, digital pens as a means to support individual work, and interactive whiteboards as a collaborative knowledge construction space. We report on the conceptual design of Collboard, its different technological and software components, as well as our findings from experiences we conducted in a Swedish school with 12 students from a 7th grade maths class. Findings from the experience provide an indication that Collboard can be well integrated in classroom teaching, and that it can foster the development of collective intelligence, distributed cognition and transmedia navigation in different knowledge domains. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
336	distributed	2012	Wong, LH; Chen, W; Jan, M	How artefacts mediate small-group co-creation activities in a mobile-assisted seamless language learning environment?	JOURNAL OF COMPUTER ASSISTED LEARNING	The rich learning resources and contexts learners experience in their everyday life could play important roles in complementing formal learning, but are often neglected by learners and teachers. In this paper, we present an intervention study in Move, Idioms!, a mobile-assisted Chinese language learning approach that emphasizes contextualized learner content creation and meaning (sense) making with their daily encounters. In the study, students used smart phones on a 1:1 basis to take photos of the real-life contexts pertaining to Chinese idioms or conjunctions, made sentences with the idioms/conjunctions, and then posted them onto a wiki space for peer reviews. This paper focuses on analysing students on-campus face-to-face collaborative learning process. Inspired by the notions of mediation by artefacts and distributed cognition, we derived a novel visualization approach for descriptive analysis of the small-group activities to provide a synoptic view of the process of student artefact co-creation in such collaborative activities. Through our artefact-oriented analysis, we foreground the significance and the potential impact in fostering learners habit of mind and skills in identifying and appropriating in situ resources to mediate their learning activities in any learning space, rather than always being dictated by the resources that the teacher provides with fixed roles to play.
337	distributed	2011	Huebner, B	Genuinely collective emotions	EUROPEAN JOURNAL FOR PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE	It is received wisdom in philosophy and the cognitive sciences that individuals can be in emotional states but groups cannot. But why should we accept this view? In this paper, I argue that there is substantial philosophical and empirical support for the existence of collective emotions. Thus, while there is good reason to be skeptical about many ascriptions of collective emotion, I argue that some groups exhibit the computational complexity and informational integration required for being in genuinely emotional states.
338	distributed	2010	Geertz, AW	Brain, Body and Culture: A Biocultural Theory of Religion	METHOD & THEORY IN THE STUDY OF RELIGION	This essay sketches out a biocultural theory of religion which is based on an expanded view of cognition that is anchored in brain and body (embrained and embodied), deeply dependent on culture (enculturated) and extended and distributed beyond the borders of individual brains. Such an approach uniquely accommodates contemporary cultural and neurobiological sciences. Since the challenge that the study of religion faces, in my opinion, is at the interstices of these sciences, I have tried to develop a theory of religion which acknowledges the fact. My hope is that the theory can be of use to scholars of religion and be submitted to further hypotheses and tests by cognitive scientists.
339	distributed	2010	Geiger, RS; Ribes, D	The Work of Sustaining Order in Wikipedia: The Banning of a Vandal	2010 ACM CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER SUPPORTED COOPERATIVE WORK	In this paper, we examine the social roles of software tools in the English-language Wikipedia, specifically focusing on autonomous editing programs and assisted editing tools. This qualitative research builds on recent research in which we quantitatively demonstrate the growing prevalence of such software in recent years. Using trace ethnography, we show how these often-unofficial technologies have fundamentally transformed the nature of editing and administration in Wikipedia. Specifically, we analyze 'vandal fighting' as an epistemic process of distributed cognition, highlighting the role of non-human actors in enabling a decentralized activity of collective intelligence. In all, this case shows that software programs are used for more than enforcing policies and standards. These tools enable coordinated yet decentralized action, independent of the specific norms currently in force.
340	distributed	2009	Ward, T; Nee, C	Surfaces and depths: evaluating the theoretical assumptions of cognitive skills programmes	PSYCHOLOGY CRIME & LAW	Cognitive skills programmes for offenders such as Reasoning and Rehabilitation (R R) have been around now for over 20 years and were developed in part to address their poor reasoning and decision-making skills. In this paper we critically examine the theoretical underpinnings of the R R programme in light of current theoretical developments and research from cognitive neuroscience, philosophy, biology, and psychology. After considering recent theoretical and empirical research on rationality, emotions, distributed cognition, and embodiment we conclude with some thoughts about how to fine-tune cognitive skills programmes such as R R in light of this research.
341	distributed	2007	Brehaut, JC; Hamm, R; Majumdar, S; Papa, F; Lott, A; Lang, E	Cognitive and social issues in emergency medicine knowledge translation: A research agenda	ACADEMIC EMERGENCY MEDICINE	The individual practitioner is a linchpin in the process of translating new knowledge into practice, particularly in the emergency department, where physician autonomy is high, resources are limited, and decision-making situations are complex. An understanding of the cognitive and social processes that affect knowledge translation (KT) in emergency medicine (EM) is crucial and at present understudied. As part of the 2007 Academic Emergency Medicine Consensus Conference on KT in EM, our group sought to identify key research areas that would inform our understanding of these cognitive and social processes. We combined an online discussion group of interdisciplinary stakeholders, an extensive review of the existing literature, and a "public hearing" of the recommendations at the Consensus Conference to establish relative preference for the recommendations, as well as their relevance and clarity to attendees. We identified five key research areas as follows. 1) What provider-specific barriers/facilitators to the use of new knowledge are relevant in the EM setting? 2) Can social psychological theories of behavior change be used to develop better KT interventions for EM? 3) Can the study of "distributed cognition" suggest new vehicles for KT in the emergency department? 4) Can the concept of dual-process reasoning inform our understanding of the KT process? 5) Can patient-specific, immediate feedback serve as a vehicle for KT in EM? We believe that exploring these key research questions will directly lead to improved KT interventions and to further discussion of the cognitive and social factors impacting KT in EM.
342	distributed	2007	Magnus, PD	Distributed cognition and the task of science	SOCIAL STUDIES OF SCIENCE	This paper gives a characterization of distributed cognition (cl-cog) and explores ways that the framework might be applied in studies of science. I argue that a system can only be given a d-cog description if it is thought of as performing a task. Turning our attention to science, we can try to give a global d-cog account of science or local cl-cog accounts of particular scientific projects. Several accounts of science can be seen as global d-cog accounts: Robert Merton's sociology of scientific norms, Philip Kitcher's 20th-century account of cognitive labor, and Kitcher's 21st-century notion of well-ordered science. Problems that arise for them arise just because of the way that they attribute a function to science. The paper concludes by considering local d-cog accounts. Here, too, the task is the crux of the matter.
343	distributed	2007	Cowley, SJ	How human infants deal with symbol grounding	INTERACTION STUDIES	Taking a distributed view of language, this paper naturalizes symbol grounding. Learning to talk is traced to - not categorizing speech sounds - but events that shape the rise of human-style autonomy. On the extended symbol hypothesis, this happens as babies integrate micro-activity with slow and deliberate adult action. As they discover social norms, intrinsic motive formation enables them to reshape co-action. Because infants link affect to contingencies, dyads develop norm-referenced routines. Over time, infant doings become analysis amenable. The caregiver of a nine-month-old may, for example, prompt the baby to fetch objects. Once she concludes that the baby uses 'words' to understand what she says, the infant can use this belief in orienting to more abstract contingencies. New cognitive powers will develop as the baby learns to act in ways that are consistent with a caregiver's false belief that her baby uses 'words.'
344	distributed	2004	Sutton, J	Representation, levels, and context in integrational linguistics and distributed cognition	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Distributed Cognition and Integrational Linguistics have much in common. Both approaches see communicative activity and intelligent behaviour in general as strongly context-dependent and action-oriented, and brains as permeated by history. But there is some tension between the two frameworks on three important issues. The majority of theorists of distributed cognition want to maintain some notions of mental representation and computation, and to seek generalizations and patterns in the various ways in which creatures like us couple with technologies, media, and other agents; many also want to offer explanations at subpersonal levels which may undercut the autonomy of personal-level accounts. In contrast, dominant views in integrational linguistics reject all invocation of representation, resist the explanatory search for similarity across contexts and moments, and see linguistics as a lay discipline which should not offer explanations in terms alien to ordinary agents. On each of these issues, I argue that integrationists could move closer to the distributed cognition framework without losing the most important aspects of their view: integrationist criticisms of mainstream or classical theories can be respected while alliances with revised cognitivist views about representation, context, and explanation are developed. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
345	distributed	2014	Fusaroli, R; Gangopadhyay, N; Tylen, K	The dialogically extended mind: Language as skilful intersubjective engagement	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	A growing conceptual and empirical literature is advancing the idea that language extends our cognitive skills. One of the most influential positions holds that language - qua material symbols - facilitates individual thought processes by virtue of its material properties (Clark, 2006a). Extending upon this model, we argue that language enhances our cognitive capabilities in a much more radical way: the skilful engagement of public material symbols facilitates evolutionarily unprecedented modes of collective perception, action and reasoning (interpersonal synergies) creating dialogically extended minds. We relate our approach to other ideas about collective minds (Gallagher, 2011; Theiner, Allen, & Goldstone, 2010; Tollefsen, 2006) and review a number of empirical studies to identify the mechanisms enabling the constitution of interpersonal cognitive systems. (C) 2013 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
346	distributed	2013	Al-Samarraie, H; Teo, T; Abbas, M	Can structured representation enhance students' thinking skills for better understanding of E-learning content?	COMPUTERS & EDUCATION	This paper proposes an e-learning model to assess the effects of online structured representation of content on learners' understanding. We designed a structured representation based on the theory of distributed cognition that provides seven segments for reading research articles. The study hypothesized that motivation, attention, and interactivity are essential factors that affect students' thinking skills for understanding e-learning content. To investigate and confirm the effect of these factors on the students' thinking skills, we designed a survey and analyzed the responses of 210 university students concerning the proposed structured representation. The results revealed that motivation, attention, and interactivity did contribute to the students' thinking skills. They also demonstrated that the structured representation helped students achieve an adequate level of thinking skills as they read research articles, which had a positive effect on their understanding. This finding demonstrates that structured representation has significant potential as a learning tool and that structure-based e-learning can influence students' metacognitive activities and facilitate their understanding. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
347	distributed	2013	Black, LJ	When visuals are boundary objects in system dynamics work	SYSTEM DYNAMICS REVIEW	Using modeling representations as boundary objects provides an important aid to collective meaning-making. By understanding the construct of boundary objects, which arises from sociological studies of cross-boundary work, we can increase our effectiveness in using visual representations to facilitate shared understanding for joint action. This paper draws on theories of social construction, distributed cognition, and boundary objects to build the argument that visual representations provide the crucial pivot between the system dynamics modeling method and socially constructing shared meaning. I highlight the role of visuals particularly in the context of group model building because it provides an explicit occasion devoted to shared meaning-making through facilitated execution of the system dynamics method. Many system dynamicists use the model-building process and simulation analyses to socially construct shared understanding among people with differing domain expertise, and the theoretical principles and practical guidelines described here can usefully inform efforts beyond participatory modeling workshops. Copyright (c) 2013 System Dynamics Society
348	distributed	2012	Sharples, S; Martin, J; Lang, A; Craven, M; O'Neill, S; Barnett, J	Medical device design in context: A model of user-device interaction and consequences	DISPLAYS	The practice of evaluating interaction with devices is embedded in disciplines such as human-computer interaction and cognitive ergonomics, including concepts such as affordances, error analysis, skill, rule and knowledge based behaviour and decision making biases. This paper considers the way in which the approach that has been routinely applied to displays and control design within the control and transport domains can be transferred to the context of medical devices. The importance of considering the context in which medical devices are used and implemented is presented, and the need for a systems approach to medical device design is emphasised. Five case studies from medical device control and display design are presented as an aide to developing an understanding of the relationship between device design and resultant behaviours. On the basis of these case studies, four types of mediating factors (catalysts, enablers, facilitators and enhancers) are proposed and a model to describe the link between device design, user, context and consequences is presented. (C) 2012 Published by Elsevier B.V.
349	distributed	2009	Stanton, NA; Salmon, PM; Walker, GH; Jenkins, D	Genotype and phenotype schemata as models of situation awareness in dynamic command and control teams	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF INDUSTRIAL ERGONOMICS	This article focuses on research undertaken within the military domain by the HFI-DTC using a network approach within a schemata theoretical framework to understand the structural aspects of social tasks and situated cognition. This research has led to developments of ideas on distributed cognition, based on the analysis of networks team awareness in distributed tasks. In this article we extend the ideas of distributed situation awareness to consider compatible and transactive awareness in collaborative environments. it is suggested that in these systems compatibility in the awareness of system agents is essential for task performance. Any exchange of awareness 'elements' is more like a transaction than a 'sharing' of awareness, because agents relate the information to their own personal goals and tasks. Examples are presented to illustrate these concepts. It is proposed that by examination of the phenotype schemata (through interviews, transcripts, observation and task analysis), one may begin to understand the underlying genotype schemata. Crown Copyright (C) 2008 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
350	distributed	2008	Fu, WT	The Microstructures of Social Tagging: A Rational Model	CSCW: 2008 ACM CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER SUPPORTED COOPERATIVE WORK, CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS	This article presents a rational model developed under the distributed cognition framework that explains how social tags influence knowledge acquisition and adaptation in exploratory ill-defined information tasks. The model provides integrated predictions on the interactions among link selections, use and creation of tags, and the formation of mental categories. The model shows that the quality of tags not only influences search efficiency, but also the quality of mental categories formed during exploratory search. In addition, the model shows that aggregate regularities can be explained by microstructures of behavior that emerged from the adaptive assimilation of concepts and categories of multiple users through the social tagging system. The model has important implications on how collaborative systems could influence higher-level cognitive activities.
351	distributed	2007	Turns, J; Eliot, M; Neal, R; Linse, A	Investigating the teaching concerns of engineering educators	JOURNAL OF ENGINEERING EDUCATION	The teaching concerns of engineering educators offer one lens for thinking about how to support engineering educators' efforts to improve their teaching. In this study, we collected narrative accounts of teaching consultations between engineering educators and an instructional consultant. Transcripts of these accounts were coded for individual teaching concerns, which were then interpreted from the perspective of existing models and also aggregated into themes. We discuss our findings by using them to highlight ways in which engineering educators are already thinking effectively, to suggest how the adoption of innovation and professional problem-solving can serve as promising frameworks for thinking about teaching activity, and to suggest that additional research on engineering teaching take advantage of distributed cognition models to truly understand how our students are taught.
352	distributed	2007	Donald, M	The slow process: A hypothetical cognitive adaptation for distributed cognitive networks	JOURNAL OF PHYSIOLOGY-PARIS	Human cognitive evolution is characterized by two special features that are truly novel in the primate line. The first is the emergence of "mindsharing" cultures that perform cooperative cognitive work, and serve as distributed cognitive networks. The second is the emergence of a brain that is specifically adapted for functioning within those distributed networks, and cannot realize its design potential without them. This paper proposes a hypothetical neural process at the core of this brain adaptation, called the "slow process". It enables the human brain to comprehend social events of much longer duration and complexity than those that characterize primate social life. It runs in the background of human cognitive life, with the faster moving sensorimotor interface running in the foreground. Most mammals can integrate events in the shorter time zone that corresponds to working memory. However, very few can comprehend complex events that extend over several hours (for example, a game or conversation) in what may be called the "intermediate" time zone. Adult humans typically live, plan, and imagine their lives in this time range, which seems to exceed the capabilities of our closest relatives, bonobos and chimpanzees. In summary, human cognition has both an individual and a collective dimension. Individual brains and minds function within cognitive-cultural networks, or CCNs, that store and transmit knowledge. The human brain relies on cultural input even to develop the basic cognitive capacities needed to gain access to that knowledge in the first place. The postulated slow process is a top-down executive capacity that evolved specifically to manage the cultural connection, and handle the cognitive demands imposed by increasingly complex distributed systems. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
353	distributed	2007	Carmien, S; Kollar, I; Fischer, G; Fischer, F	THE INTERPLAY OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL SCRIPTS A Distributed Cognition Perspective	SCRIPTING COMPUTER-SUPPORTED COLLABORATIVE LEARNING - COGNITIVE, COMPUTATIONAL AND EDUCATIONAL PERSPECTIVES	This chapter describes different script types that are involved when a person X is accomplishing a particular task Y. We refer to concepts and ideas from distributed cognition theories. It is assumed that individuals are holding internal scripts that guide them in the way they process tasks they are faced with, and these internal scripts are standing in a complex relationship to the external scripts provided by an artifact or by other persons. Three factors are regarded as crucial in order to describe the accomplishment of a task, namely (a) the actual activity, (b) knowledge underlying the activity, and (c) the executive function, a (meta-)cognitive instance that is setting the goals for the task and controls the system's task accomplishment. For each of these three main factors, several sub-categories are introduced, on which two script approaches are compared. The first approach represents the socio-technical environment Memory Aiding Prompting System (MAPS) designed to support individuals with cognitive disabilities in accomplishing everyday tasks with a focus on "tools for living". The second approach, the so-called collaborative argumentation script, represents a computer-supported collaborative inquiry learning environment to facilitate students' collaborative argumentation with a focus on "tools for learning". Implications of the comparison for the design of external scripts are derived and directions for future research are discussed.
354	distributed	2005	Becvar, LA; Hollan, J; Hutchins, E	Hands as molecules: Representational gestures used for developing theory in a scientific laboratory	SEMIOTICA	This research examines how representational gestures (Kita 2000) made by scientists during collaborative discussions in a biochemistry lab, are used as cognitive artifacts for formulating scientific theory. By analyzing digital video of lab meetings and interviews with scientists, we find that representational gestures serve to reference and animate portions of existing material structure such as models, diagrams, and graphs. Representational gestures appear to play a significant role in how the scientific group both conceptualize and communicate theories about molecules. We believe that representational gestures operate as instantiations of essential spatiodynamic features that are not efficiently conveyed in other modalities, like language and graphical representations, and as such, are vital resources for shaping theoretical understandings in collaborative, face-to-face scientific activity. Gestures may also serve to package theoretical conceptions into semiotic entities that can be used symbolically in the 'community of practice' (Lave 1991). We use a theoretical framework provided by distributed cognition and embodied cognition to examine communal re resentational gestures as cognitive artifacts produced and modified by the biochemistry lab community during instances where theories are being negotiated.
355	distributed	2004	Harris, R	Integrationism, language, mind and world	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	These are mainly comments on other papers printed in this issue, originating from a conference that I was unfortunately unable to attend. So, I address them with the disadvantage of not having taken part in any discussion that may have followed their original presentation. This is already one kind of decontextualization, but it is not something I can now do much about. Some of the papers printed here have nothing to say about integrationism at all. These I do not comment on. I examine the prospect of fruitful collaboration between integrationists and proponents of 'distributed cognition'. (C) 2004 Roy Harris. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
356	distributed	2002	Friedlander, DS; Phoha, S	Semantic information fusion for coordinated signal processing in mobile sensor networks	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTING APPLICATIONS	Distributed cognition of dynamic processes is commonly observed in mobile groups of animates like schools of fish, hunting lions, or in human teams for sports or military maneuvers. This paper presents methods for dynamic distributed cognition using an ad hoc mobile network of microsensors to detect, identify and track targets in noisy environments. We develop off-line algorithms for aggregating the most appropriate knowledge abstractions into semantic information, which is then used for on-line fusion of relevant attributes observed by local clusters in the sensor network. Local analysis of time series of sensor data yields aggregated semantic information, which is exchanged across nodes for higher level distributed cognition. This eliminates the need for exchanging high volumes of signal data and, thus reduces bandwidth and energy requirements for battery powered microsensors.
357	distributed	2000	Decortis, F; Noirfalise, S; Saudelli, B	Activity theory, cognitive ergonomics and distributed cognition: three views of a transport company	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	Activity theory, cognitive ergonomics and distributed cognition are three theoretical frameworks used to understand cooperative work settings. In the past, each has used case studies to describe and defend its point of view. However, comparisons are made difficult by the fact that these studies are usually based on different work settings. This paper describes the application of each framework to exactly the same setting. We believe our approach shows the features that are emphasized and those that are ignored in each framework, enabling us to differentiate their relevant questions. We discuss the effects of a theoretical filter on understanding the work setting, the differences in the concept of activity, the tools and interactions between humans and tools, the concept of representation, and we look at how a plurality of viewpoints may broaden any interpretation. (C) 2000Academic Press.
358	distributed	1999	Garbis, C; Waern, Y	Team coordination and communication in a rescue command staff: The role of public representations	TRAVAIL HUMAIN	In this paper we present a study conducted on a staff command training session at a Swedish national rescue training centre. We used the distributed cognition framework according to which people as well as the artefacts they use constitute a cognitive system. Our interest is directed towards the way in which individual situation models were spread and negotiated by means of communication around the artefacts. The conclusion is that a public artefact seems to be a crucial determinant in the development of a shaved situation model.
359	distributed	1994	CLEGG, C	PSYCHOLOGY AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY - THE STUDY OF COGNITION IN ORGANIZATIONS	BRITISH JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	This paper reviews a range of psychological research into the development and use of information technology (IT) at work. The overall purpose is to use this field of inquiry to argue the need to study cognition in organizations. The paper includes reviews of the literatures on human-computer interaction, the wider organizational aspects of IT, metaphors in use within organizational psychology, empirical studies of the development and use of IT, and some emerging work on situated action and distributed cognition. The paper ends with an outline of some topics that should be included in the study of cognition in organizations, describing some ideas on the interdependencies between organizational and cognitive issues, a worldview to guide this research, and a framework based on the division of cognitive labour.
360	distributed	2015	Memmert, D; Almond, L; Bunker, D; Butler, J; Fasold, F; Griffin, L; Hillmann, W; Hutermann, S; Klein-Soetebier, T; Konig, S; Nopp, S; Rathschlag, M; Schul, K; Schwab, S; Thorpe, R; Furley, P	Top 10 Research Questions Related to Teaching Games for Understanding	RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT	In this article, we elaborate on 10 current research questions related to the teaching games for understanding (TGfU) approach with the objective of both developing the model itself and fostering game understanding, tactical decision making, and game-playing ability in invasion and net/wall games: (1) How can existing scientific approaches from different disciplines be used to enhance game play for beginners and proficient players? (2) How can state-of-the-art technology be integrated to game-play evaluations of beginners and proficient players by employing corresponding assessments? (4) How can complexity thinking be utilized to shape day-to-day physical education (PE) and coaching practices? (5) How can game making/designing be helpfully utilized for emergent learning? (6) How could purposeful game design create constraints that enable tactical understanding and skill development through adaptive learning and distributed cognition? (7) How can teacher/coach development programs benefit from game-centered approaches? (8) How can TGfU-related approaches be implemented in teacher or coach education with the goal of facilitating preservice and in-service teachers/coaches' learning to teach and thereby foster their professional development from novices to experienced practitioners? (9) Can the TGfU approach be considered a helpful model across different cultures? (10) Can physical/psychomotor, cognitive, affective/social, and cultural development be fostered via TGfU approaches? The answers to these questions are critical not only for the advancement of teaching and coaching in PE and sport-based clubs, but also for an in-depth discussion on new scientific avenues and technological tools.
361	distributed	2014	Harris, CB; Barnier, AJ; Sutton, J; Keil, PG	Couples as socially distributed cognitive systems: Remembering in everyday social and material contexts	MEMORY STUDIES	In everyday life remembering occurs within social contexts, and theories from a number of disciplines predict cognitive and social benefits of shared remembering. Recent debates have revolved around the possibility that cognition can be distributed across individuals and material resources, as well as across groups of individuals. We review evidence from a maturing program of empirical research in which we adopted the lens of distributed cognition to gain new insights into the ways that remembering might be shared in groups. Across four studies, we examined shared remembering in intimate couples. We studied their collaboration on more simple memory tasks as well as their conversations about shared past experiences. We also asked them about their everyday memory compensation strategies in order to investigate the complex ways that couples may coordinate their material and interpersonal resources. We discuss our research in terms of the costs and benefits of shared remembering, features of the group and features of the remembering task that influence the outcomes of shared remembering, the cognitive and interpersonal functions of shared remembering, and the interaction between social and material resources. More broadly, this interdisciplinary research program suggests the potential for empirical psychology research to contribute to ongoing interdisciplinary discussions of distributed cognition.
362	distributed	2011	Sorensen, LJ; Stanton, NA	Is SA shared or distributed in team work? An exploratory study in an intelligence analysis task	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF INDUSTRIAL ERGONOMICS	This study compared two theoretical approaches to Situation Awareness (SA): the psychological school of thought and the systems ergonomics school of thought, by assessing measurement of team SA within these frameworks. Two teams were assigned and organised into either a traditional Hierarchy or a Peer-to-Peer organisational structure in a single case study design. Measures derived from the psychological and systems ergonomics perspectives were applied to assess their sensitivity for assessing team SA. No statistically significant differences were found between the two teams when measures originating in the psychological tradition were considered: differences were found, however, for measures originating in the systems ergonomics tradition. Literature concerned with team SA reveals a lack of consensus with regards to explaining the nature of the phenomenon as well as its measurement. This paper argues for a debate in the field to clarify what constitutes appropriate measurement techniques for team SA and suggests that these are taken from the systems ergonomics tradition, as suggested by the present studies findings. Relevance to industry: Teams are a major feature of most industrial applications of work, and maintaining good situation awareness is important to successful performance. A method for examining the situation awareness of teams is proposed and compared with the individual models. Analysing the team as a functional unit of situation awareness is presented for future work. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
363	distributed	2010	Menary, R	The holy grail of cognitivism: a response to Adams and Aizawa	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Adams and Aizawa (2010b) define cognitivism as the processing of representations with underived content. In this paper, I respond to their use of this stipulative definition of cognition. I look at the plausibility of Adams and Aizawa's cognitivism, taking into account that they have no criteria for cognitive representation and no naturalistic theory of content determination. This is a glaring hole in their cognitivism-which requires both a theory of representation and underived content to be successful. I also explain why my own position, cognitive integration, is not susceptible to the supposed causal-coupling fallacy. Finally, I look at the more interesting question of whether the distinction between derived and underived content is important for cognition. Given Adams and Aizawa's concession that there is no difference in content between derived and underived representations (only a difference in how they get their content) I conclude that the distinction is not important and show that there is empirical research which does not respect the distinction.
364	distributed	2007	Nova, N; Wehrle, T; Goslin, J; Bourquin, Y; Dillenbourg, P	Collaboration in a multi-user game: impacts of an awareness tool on mutual modeling	MULTIMEDIA TOOLS AND APPLICATIONS	This paper presents an experimental research that focuses on collaboration in a multi-player game. The aim of the project is to study the cognitive impacts of awareness tools, i.e., artifacts that allow users of a collaborative system to be aware of what is going on in the joint virtual environment. The focus is on finding an effect on performance as well as on the representation an individual builds of what his partner knows, plans and intends to do (i.e., mutual modeling). We find that using awareness tools has a significant effect by improving task performance. However, the players who were provided with this tool did not show any improvement of their mutual modeling. Further analysis on contrasted groups revealed that there was an effect of the awareness tool on mutual modeling for players who spent a large amount of time using the tool.
365	distributed	2006	Halverson, RR; Clifford, MA	Evaluation in the wild: A distributed cognition perspective on teacher assessment	EDUCATIONAL ADMINISTRATION QUARTERLY	Purpose: The authors adapted distributed cognition theory to provide a detailed account of how school leaders use knowledge of the new programs, existing initiatives, and school contexts to guide policy implementation. Research Design: The study used distributed cognition theory to show how policy implementation studies provide an occasion to understand the influence of context on practice. The article focuses art a case study of(a) a suburban district design of a teacher evaluation policy and (b) a principal's effort to use the evaluation program with the teachers in her middle school. The authors adapted the distributed cognition theory to provide an analytic framework to better address the issues of school leadership. Findings: The authors found that the design of the policy required teacher evaluators to address the tensions between summative and formative evaluation implicit in the program design. In this case, the principal relied heavily on her discretion to determine which features of the teacher evaluation policy would be emphasized with different teachers. The case also provided insight into how the principal reconciled the demands of evaluation with ongoing instructional and personnel demands. Conclusions: The distributed cognition framework provided a valuable tool for organizing close studies of the cognitive and contextual dimensions of leadership practice and can provide valuable information about how policies can be designed and used to shape real changes in everyday practice.
366	distributed	2005	Landy, D; Goldstone, RL	How we learn about things we don't already understand	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The computation-as-cognition metaphor requires that all cognitive objects are constructed from a. xed set of basic primitives; prominent models of cognition and perception try to provide that fixed set. Despite this effort, however, there are no extant computational models that can actually generate complex concepts and processes from simple and generic basic sets, and there are good reasons to wonder whether such models may be forthcoming. We suggest that one can have the benefits of computationalism without a commitment to. xed feature sets, by postulating processes that slowly develop special-purpose feature languages, from which knowledge is constructed. This provides an alternative to the fixed-model conception without radical anti-representationlism. Substantial evidence suggests that such feature development adaptation actually occurs in the perceptual learning that accompanies category learning. Given the existence of robust methods for novel feature creation, the assumption of a fixed basis set of primitives as psychologically necessary is at best premature. Methods of primitive construction include: ( a) perceptual sensitization to physical stimuli; (b) unitization and differentiation of existing (non-psychological) stimulus elements into novel psychological primitives, guided by the current set of features; and ( c) the intelligent selection of novel inputs, which in turn guides the automatic construction of new primitive concepts. Modelling the grounding of concepts as sensitivity to physical properties reframes the question of concept construction from the generation of an appropriate composition of sensations, to the tuning of detectors to appropriate circumstances.
367	distributed	2005	Thompson, NS; Alford, EM; Liao, CY; Johnson, R; Matthews, MA	Integrating undergraduate research into engineering: A communications approach to holistic education	JOURNAL OF ENGINEERING EDUCATION	This paper describes the Research Communications Studio (RCS), a structured approach for teaching undergraduate researchers to do authentic written, oral, and graphical communications tasks while they are learning to do research. In the RCS, small groups of undergraduate researchers meet weekly with a communications faculty member, an engineering graduate student mentor, and a communications graduate research assistant. The project is built upon social constructivist theory that recognizes the interdependence between communication, cognitive development, and metacognition. It investigates knowledge construction within a small-group context of distributed cognition, the concept that each group member's expertise is available to other group members. Data from surveys indicate that engineering faculty members, graduate student mentors, and undergraduate participants were very positive about the progress participants made in cognitive development and communications abilities. Analysis of participants' reflective writings shows the development of metacognitive abilities necessary for self-directed, life-long learning.
368	distributed	2004	Brereton, M	Distributed cognition in engineering design: Negotiating between abstract and material representations	DESIGN REPRESENTATION	0
369	distributed	2002	Giordano, D	Evolution of interactive graphical representations into a design language: a distributed cognition account	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	This study investigates the evolution of the graphical representations used to specify information systems in a community of novice designers supported by a shared design memory, adopting the paradigm of distributed cognition. The nature of the relationship between design notations, quality of design and communication is explicated by considering the interplay of actors, representations, design task and an evolving social and cultural context. An account is provided of how meaningful representational features are transmitted and transformed across generations of designers, and combined in a design language that improves design quality and accommodates varied communication needs and interactional constraints. Diffusion and creation of novel representational features start from a process of critical imitation steered by criteria of instrumental utility set by the individual design teams to address both their needs, concerning level of understanding and desired expressiveness of the design, and the socially regulated expectations about what is required in a good design. These tendencies result in an organizational phenomenon according to which the language of the community evolves by incorporating more sophisticated representational modes, i.e. patterns of features that are used in a socially clever way, in particular to reduce the cognitive load involved in interpretation, and to sustain interaction with the instructor during the exam. It is argued that the cognitive fit between the general characteristics of design task and the expressive modalities allowed by the medium used for the design specifications, plus the individual differences between the novice designers are key factors in sustaining the evolution of the language. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
370	distributed	1999	Benyon, D; Imaz, M	Metaphors and models: Conceptual foundations of representations in interactive systems development	HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	When system developers design a computer system (or other information artifact), they must inevitably make judgments as to how to abstract the worksystem and how to represent this abstraction in their designs. In the past, such abstractions have been based either on a traditional philosophy of cognition or cognitive psychology or on intuitive, spontaneous philosophies. A number of recent developments in distributed cognition (Hutchins, 1995), activity theory (Nardi, 1996), and experientialism (Lakoff, 1987) have raised questions about the legitimacy of such philosophies. In this article, we discuss from where the abstractions come that designers employ and how such abstractions are related to the concepts that the users of these systems have. In particular, we use the theory of experientialism or experiential cognition as the foundation for our analysis. Experientialism (Lakoff, 1987) has previously only been applied to human-computer interaction (HCI) design in a quite limited way, yet it deals specifically with issues concerned with categorization and concept formation. We show how the concept of metaphor, derived from experientialism, can be used to understand the strengths and weaknesses of alternative representations in HCI design, how it can highlight changes in the paradigm underlying representations, and how it can be used to consider new approaches to HCI design. We also discuss the role that "mental spaces" have in forming new concepts and designs.
371	distributed	1998	Lebeau, RB	Cognitive tools in a clinical encounter in medicine: Supporting empathy and expertise in distributed systems	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	This paper examines how, in use, culturally-provided tools can be said to embody knowledge and distribute thinking. It focuses on the routine procedures used by medical professionals to investigate patient complaints and examines explicit and implicit contributions of these conventional procedures to distributed thinking in clinical encounters in medicine. After characterizing these tools, examples of how the tools guide and constrain medical problem solving are provided The tools support the development and exercise of the routines characteristic of medical expertise, while at the same time preserving the nonroutine, controlled deliberation necessary for sound and ethical medical care. The paper concludes with ways in which the tools' role in thinking can be promoted through medical education, particularly during students' early clinical exposure: (a) Organizing learning experiences that expose the tools' meanings; (b) exploiting the benefits of small group work to promote collaborative and individual competencies in distributed systems-and (c) explicitly utilizing the products of thinking with these tools to further the goals shared by participants in clinical encounters.
372	distributed	1998	Newstetter, WC	Of green monkeys and failed affordances: A case study of a mechanical engineering design course	RESEARCH IN ENGINEERING DESIGN-THEORY APPLICATIONS AND CONCURRENT ENGINEERING	This article reports on an ethnographic study of a mechanical engineering design class. The findings are based on participant observation of one student design team of three students as they designed, tested and built an engineered solution to a problem over a period of ten weeks. The paper describes the curricular efforts to provide social and material affordances both for learning and doing design, and the failure of students on the observed team to take up those affordances. It offers explanations for failure within a framework of conflicting classroom views and pedagogic issues. It discusses the implications of the observed student behavior for design education in general, and mechanical engineering design, in particular.
373	distributed	2012	Morrow, DG; Conner-Garcia, T; Graumlich, JF; Wolf, MS; McKeever, S; Madison, A; Davis, K; Wilson, EAH; Liao, V; Chin, CL; Kaiser, D	An EMR-based tool to support collaborative planning for medication use among adults with diabetes: Design of a multi-site randomized control trial	CONTEMPORARY CLINICAL TRIALS	Patients with type II diabetes often struggle with self-care, including adhering to complex medication regimens and managing their blood glucose levels. Medication nonadherence in this population reflects many factors, including a gap between the demands of taking medication and the limited literacy and cognitive resources that many patients bring to this task. This gap is exacerbated by a lack of health system support, such as inadequate patient-provider collaboration. The goal of our project is to improve self-management of medications and related health outcomes by providing system support. The Medtable (TM) is an Electronic Medical Record (EMR)-integrated tool designed to support patient-provider collaboration needed for medication management. It helps providers and patients work together to create effective medication schedules that are easy to implement. We describe the development and initial evaluation of the tool, as well as the process of integrating it with an EMR system in general internal medicine clinics. A planned evaluation study will investigate whether an intervention centered on the Medtable (TM) improves medication knowledge, adherence, and health outcomes relative to a usual care control condition among type II diabetic patients struggling to manage multiple medications. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
374	distributed	2012	Nilsson, M; van Laere, J; Susi, T; Ziemke, T	Information fusion in practice: A distributed cognition perspective on the active role of users	INFORMATION FUSION	Traditionally, the focus of most information fusion research has been on computational aspects, as illustrated by, for example, different versions of the JDL data fusion model. Consequently, the human user has mainly been conceived as a relatively passive recipient of fused information. However, the importance of understanding the active role of human information processing in information fusion is gaining increasing recognition, as also reflected in discussions of a "level 5" in the JDL model. This paper presents a case study of the interaction between human and machine information processing in a maritime surveillance control room. A detailed analysis of cognitive processes and information flows involved in identifying and tracking moving vessels illustrates how machines and human operators collaboratively perform fusion in a highly distributed fashion. The theoretical framework of distributed cognition provides an alternative or complementary way of analysing information fusion systems/processes that more clearly reveals the actual complexities of the interaction between human and machine information processing in practice. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
375	distributed	2011	Evans, MA; Feenstra, E; Ryon, E; McNeill, D	A multimodal approach to coding discourse: Collaboration, distributed cognition, and geometric reasoning	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF COMPUTER-SUPPORTED COLLABORATIVE LEARNING	Our research aims to identify children's communicative strategies when faced with the task of solving a geometric puzzle in CSCL contexts. We investigated how to identify and trace distributed cognition in problem-solving interactions based on discursive cohesion to objects, participants, and prior discursive content, and geometric and cooperative concepts. We report on the development of a method of coding and representation of verbal and gestural content for multimodal interactional data and initial application of this framework to a microethnographic case study of two small groups of 7 and 8-year-old learners solving tangram manipulatives in physical and virtual desktop settings. We characterize the establishment of shared reference points as "coreferences" which cohere on object, para, and meta-levels through both gesture and speech. Our analysis foregrounds how participants establish common referential ground to facilitate collaborative problem solving with either computer-supported or physical puzzles. Using multimodal analysis and a theoretical framework we developed to study interactional dynamics, we identified patterns of focus, dominance, and coalition formation as they relate to coreferentiality on multiple levels. Initial findings indicate increased communication and cohesion to higher-level principles in the virtual tangram puzzle-solving setting. This work contributes to available models of multimodal analysis of distributed cognition using current manipulative technologies for early childhood mathematics education.
376	distributed	2011	Bardone, E	Seeking Chances: From Biased Rationality to Distributed Cognition	SEEKING CHANCES: FROM BIASED RATIONALITY TO DISTRIBUTED COGNITION	0
377	distributed	2011	Ching, YH; Hsu, YC	Design-grounded assessment: A framework and a case study of Web 2.0 practices in higher education	AUSTRALASIAN JOURNAL OF EDUCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY	This paper synthesises three theoretical perspectives, including sociocultural theory, distributed cognition, and situated cognition, into a framework to guide the design and assessment of Web 2.0 practices in higher education. In addition, this paper presents a case study of Web 2.0 practices. Thirty-seven online graduate students participated in a small-group collaborative concept mapping activity using Web 2.0 applications (e. g. Webspiration) to construct sophisticated understanding of instructional design processes. The analysis of this case focuses on different assessment strategies adopted to ensure students' successful participation in such technology-rich collaborative context. This case study concludes that a shared goal needs to be in place to establish a purpose of collaboration. The collaborative nature of learning afforded by Web 2.0 applications needs to be acknowledged through the award of grades. That is, both the processes and products of collaborative knowledge construction need to be assessed and formally graded at individual and group levels. This paper also suggests several potential assessment strategies that may enhance smoother Web 2.0 practices, and discusses some possible challenges associated with those strategies.
378	distributed	2009	Fioratou, E; Cowley, SJ	Insightful thinking Cognitive dynamics and material artifacts	PRAGMATICS & COGNITION	We trace how cognition arises beyond the skin. Experimental work on insight problem solving is used to examine how external artifacts can be used to reach the goal of assembling a 'cheap necklace'. Instead of asking how insight occurs 'in the head', our participants in Experiment I can either draw solution attempts or manipulate real objects (specifically, chain links that make up a necklace). Even though performance with real chain links is significantly more successful than on paper, access to objects does not make this insight problem simple: objects themselves do not shape cognition. This challenges extended mind views. While failure often results from the inappropriate (to the current insight problem) application of hill-climbing, material artifacts can trigger solutions. In Experiment 2, we used 'open link' conditions of the concretized problem to prompt participants to act (or think). Solutions arrived via insight, serendipity, or trial-and-error. By investigating how objects are used, we show that they do more than supplement neural events. Rather, participants monitor and anticipate the effects of action (and thinking) within an organism-environment system. By analogy, language too draws on experience of monitoring real-time effects as bodily dynamics play out in a normative and cultural world. In engaging with public language, it is likely that verbal patterns function by constraining anticipatory (action-based) cognitive processes.
379	distributed	2008	Licoppe, C	In the "activity square": International perspectives on labor, work and activity	SOCIOLOGIE DU TRAVAIL	How to define a "space" of research on labor and work for describing the development, at the international level, of case studies of work-related situations ? This space is described its a square bounded by four perspectives: distributed cognition, activity theory, ethnomethodology as well as related currents of thought and the sociology of science and techniques. After an explanation of their underlying principles, these perspectives are compared so as to highlight their tensions and differences with regard to several critical points in analyzing work-related situations: data collection during fieldwork, the roles of persons and things and their position on the dialectics of continuity and change. The current development of information and communication technology provides a starting, point for (re)inquiring into these four perspectives and suggesting overlapping areas and possible reconfigurations. (c) 2008 Elsevier Masson SAS. Tous droits reserves.
380	distributed	2008	Smith, ER	Social relationships and groups: New insights on embodied and distributed cognition	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	The field of social psychology - defined by its focus on the social aspects of human cognition and behavior - has in recent years begun to make contact with emerging perspectives in the cognitive sciences generally, especially the themes of embodiment and distributed cognition. This chapter reviews contributions of social psychology in these areas, with a particular focus on the intersection of embodied and distributed cognition. Research regarding embodiment in psychology and cognitive science has generally focused on implications of embodiment for individual-level functioning - for example, on the role of sensori-motor systems in mental representations. But embodied cues also contribute to relational functioning - linking the perceiver to other people - and thereby influence a broad array of social/relational processes, such as liking, interpersonal coordination, and prosocial behavior. In the area of distributed cognition, research in social psychology on group interaction and problem-solving, and in cognitive science on collective search tasks, is now converging on powerful and insightful descriptions of the processes that allow a group to discover good potential solutions without closing off consideration of diverse alternatives. Research in this area has only begun to incorporate the insights of the embodiment principle, which offers interesting and novel hypotheses for potential exploration. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
381	distributed	2008	Fasulo, A; Zucchermaglio, C	Narratives in the workplace: Facts, fictions, and canonicity	TEXT & TALK	Drawing on a set of workplace interaction corpora, both dyadic and multiparty, we present three narrative forms departing from the established notion of storytelling. These have been called Rewindings, collaborative reconstructions of yet-unknoum past events; Fictions, the creation of imaginary scenes; and Templates, condensed versions of experience providing information on unexpected outcomes or controversial occurrences. Without denying specificity to narrative discourse, we extend its definition here to the displacement of the described actions. We propose that, similarly to what is done in other social and human sciences, conversational studies ought to take into consideration the description of events that are not fully known at the onset of narration and that are partially or entirely suggested by the narrators. The study also contributes to the field of workplace studies, providing an illustration of the functioning of distributed cognition and situated knowledge by showing how narrative is a collaborative enterprise facilitating problem solving and the dissemination of competence.
382	distributed	2007	Yoo, YJ; Lyytinen, K; Heo, D	Closing the gap: towards a process model of post-merger knowledge sharing	INFORMATION SYSTEMS JOURNAL	We develop a process model of post-merger knowledge sharing based on distributed cognition, a systems perspective and path dependence. The framework conceptualizes knowledge sharing by layers of management choice and employee appropriation of knowledge resources seen as knowledge as content and knowledge as connection. We use the framework to study a merger of two polymer companies. The study reveals that mergers represent a discontinuity in knowledge sharing. Yet, chosen strategies often mirror the learned knowledge-sharing practices of one of the merged companies and match poorly with the post-merger knowledge-sharing needs. Five factors emerged contribute to this knowledge gap: (a) the nature of the merger; (b) a lack of shared context; (c) the incompatibility of existing knowledge systems; (d) the tacit dimension of knowledge; and (e) time pressures of the merger. Our study shows that, employees enacted knowledge new sharing practices that differed significantly from the official strategy to close to the post-merger knowledge gap.
383	distributed	2006	Cowley, SJ; MacDorman, KF	What baboons, babies and Tetris players tell us about interaction: a biosocial view of norm-based social learning	CONNECTION SCIENCE	Could androids use movements to build relationships'? For people, relationships are created with the help of behaviour-shaping norms, which infants begin to discover and manipulate by the third month. To build relationships, machines can also learn to exploit human reactions in real-time decision-making. In the video game Tetris, for example, affect co-opts computer-generated patterns to simplify cognitive tasks: norms mediate what Kirsh and Maglio (Cognitive Sci., 18, pp. 513-549, 1994) term epistemic actions, which allow implicit knowledge to shape key pressing in ways that, given past games, are likely to be informative and valuable. Expert players act to change their cognitive states by allowing the game's higher-level states to constrain their lower-level actions. Since this process enables the development of expertise, we might expect it to be widespread; but it seems marginal in hamadryas baboons, although they use affect and complex norms. In humans, by contrast, infants use adults as cognitive resources in developing their epistemic abilities. This has engineering implications for android designers. Since androids can elicit epistemic actions, engineers need to develop an affect sensitive inter-face. If successful at this, even rudimentary co-action may prompt people to report experiencing androids as both making choices and violating expectations.
384	distributed	2006	Paavola, S; Hakkarainen, K; Sintonen, M	Abduction with dialogical and trialogical means	LOGIC JOURNAL OF THE IGPL	In this paper we maintain that abductive inferential processes should be embedded to a more general outlook on human cognition. Abduction has clear affinities to the so-called interrogative model of inquiry in which inquiry and reasoning are conceptualized as a dialogue. We think, in addition, that dialogicality must be broadened to a "trialogical" framework which means a threefold relationship with mediating artefacts where the inquirer, other inquirers (the community), and the object of knowledge are inextricably bound up with each other in long term processes of inquiry. Seen from this perspective Peirce's semeiotic pragmatism has close connections to modern ideas about distributed cognition; also to Pera's dialectical model of science, and Davidson's theory of triangulation concerning human mind, cognition, and knowledge.
385	distributed	2006	Sharp, H; Robinson, H	Distributed cognition account of mature XP teams	EXTREME PROGRAMMING AND AGILE PROCESSES IN SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, PROCEEDINGS	Distributed cognition is a framework for analysing collaborative work. It focuses on interactions between people, between people and their environment and between people and artefacts that are created and manipulated in the course of doing work, and it emphasises information flow and information transformation. Analyses conducted using the distributed cognition framework highlight breakdowns and potential problem areas in the collaborative work being studied; distributed cognition has been used to study a wide variety of collaborative work situations. XP teams are highly collaborative, relying heavily on interactions between team members and their environment. In this paper we present accounts of four mature XP teams based on the distributed cognition framework.
386	distributed	2002	Rogoff, B; Topping, K; Baker-Sennett, J; Lacasa, P	Mutual contributions of individuals, partners, and institutions: Planning to remember in girl scout cookie sales	SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT	This paper argues that planning entails distributed, mutual contributions of individuals, their social partners, and their community institutions. We suggest that these mutually involved contributions can be viewed through shifts in focus of analysis, contrasting with analyses of cognitive development that treat individuals as though they exist apart from their social and cultural worlds. We illustrate this argument with a study examining the distributed nature of planning to remember in a complex everyday task. We investigated the personal, interpersonal, and institutional cognitive contributions of 16 Girl Scouts, their mothers and customers and other companions, and institutions (the national organization and the cookie company) in keeping track of deliveries and planning collection of money in Girl Scout cookie sales and deliveries. The article also discusses an analytic methodology (Functional Pattern Analysis) for abstracting findings from the details of rich ethnographic data. Individual scouts, their mothers, customers, and the scouting organization and cookie company all played significant roles in keeping track of progress. In particular, tools and supports provided by the cookie company played a key role in organizing the cognitive tasks, and the scouts collaborated in planning with other people (usually their mothers and customers). Our findings illustrate the importance of examining contributions beyond those of the individual, while still recognizing the active roles of individuals in thinking. We argue that conceiving of individual, interpersonal, and institutional/cultural contributions as mutually constituting aspects of cognitive activities supports this aim beyond the usual focus on separate individual and 'external 'factors.
387	distributed	2013	Cash, M	Cognition without borders: "Third wave" socially distributed cognition and relational autonomy	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	I contrast somewhat individualist arguments for first-wave "extended cognition" and second-wave "integrationist cognition" with what we can identify as a third wave of arguments for "socially and culturally distributed cognition", in which individual cognition takes place within, is supported by, and is mutually co-constructed with larger social, institutional, normative, political and technological systems and cultural practices. Such accounts must respond to the objection of "cognitive bloat". When does a processes count as my cognitive process? This objection is not best rebutted, as Clark often attempts, by limiting extension to processes that play a similar role to internal brain processes. Nor is it best addressed, as Gallagher (2013) does, by appealing to enactive engagement as grounding "ownership" of a process. Rather, the solution is in our shared, evolving, normative and social practices of holding people responsible for their actions. I support this by drawing parallels between socially distributed cognition and feminist relational theory, which has already addressed the issue of individual autonomy within social practices that shape individuals' selves, values, and capacities. I end by high-lighting political and ethical concerns raised by this conception of HEC regarding differential distribution of cognitive resources. (c) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
388	distributed	2013	Aurigemma, J; Chandrasekharan, S; Nersessian, NJ; Newstetter, W	Turning Experiments into Objects: The Cognitive Processes Involved in the Design of a Lab-on-a-Chip Device	JOURNAL OF ENGINEERING EDUCATION	Background Increasingly, modern engineers are designing miniature devices that integrate complex activities, actions, processes, or operations involving many steps, persons, and equipment; a good example is a microfluidic lab-on-a-chip device. The design of such devices is cognitively demanding and requires the generation of multiple model representations, which are used in an iterative fashion to analyze and improve prototype designs. Purpose This study addresses two questions: How are various representations and prototypes used in the iterative design and building of a microfluidic lab-on-a-chip device in a systems biology laboratory? In this design process, what cognitive functions did the representations serve? Design/Method This case study employed mixed methods. We utilized the standard ethnographic methods of participant observation, open-ended interviewing of participants, and artifact collection in an integrated systems biology research lab. Data were analyzed using open and axial coding. We also used cognitive-historical analysis to collect and analyze data from traditional historical sources (publications, grant proposals, laboratory notebooks, and technological artifacts) to recover how the salient representational, methodological, and reasoning practices were developed and used by the researchers. Results The device design involved complex interactions among mental models, computational models, and building and testing prototypes; tagging and visualizations were used to query and validate the prototypes as well as the computational models; all these were integrated to meet stringent experimental and fabrication constraints. Integration takes place across many different kinds of representations. The building of external representations helped not just to off-load cognitive load but also to add detail and constraints to the mental model. Conclusions Representational fluency and flexibility are required to manage the complexity of modern bioengineered devices. To support the development of such fluency and flexibility, engineering students must understand the function and the use of such representations, an instructional goal that has implication for new models of learning.
389	distributed	2013	de Barbaro, K; Johnson, CM; Deak, GO	Twelve-Month "Social Revolution" Emerges from Mother-Infant Sensorimotor Coordination: A Longitudinal Investigation	HUMAN DEVELOPMENT	Previous accounts of the development of triadic attention identify a "curious" shift around nine to twelve months. We introduce a novel approach inspired by distributed and embodied cognition frameworks. In a longitudinal study of five mother-infant dyads, videos of home play interactions were recorded over the infants' first year. We scrutinized the real-time organization of mother-infant sensorimotor activity, including the targets of hands, gaze, and mouth, as the dyad members attended to one another and to toys. We identified a pervasive developmental pattern: At four months, infants converged all sensory modalities on objects introduced by the mother. From six to twelve months, infants showed increasing decoupling of hands and eyes and increasingly elaborate sequences in multi-object play. Concurrently, dyads engaged in increasingly elaborate social exchanges (e.g., turn-taking) as mothers adapted to infants' sensorimotor skills. We therefore theorize that triadic attention emerges not as a novel form of social cognition but as a continuous product of sensorimotor development, scaffolded by parents' expanding social actions. (c) 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel
390	distributed	2013	Junglas, I; Goel, L; Abraham, C; Ives, B	The Social Component of Information Systems-How Sociability Contributes to Technology Acceptance	JOURNAL OF THE ASSOCIATION FOR INFORMATION SYSTEMS	The adoption of information systems is often explained in terms of usefulness and ease of use. Lately, researchers have begun to recognize that a hedonic streak in human beings provides a further contributing factor in the adoption and acceptance of information systems. Embedded in this streak is a broader social aspect that incorporates not only the solitary, individual pleasure one gets from using the system, but also a pleasure that one gets from interacting and socializing with others through the system. This becomes particularly evident in virtual environments that support high levels of interaction with others and with artifacts embedded in an immersive context. By drawing on IS theories of technology acceptance and IS success, and on theories of social interaction from evolutionary psychology, activity theory, situated action, and distributed cognition, we test the construct of sociability and its antecedents in Second Life-a popular virtual environment. Our results support that, in addition to an information and system component, a social component contributes to IS usage.
391	distributed	2012	Andrews, C; North, C	Analyst's Workspace: An Embodied Sensemaking Environment For Large, High-Resolution Displays	2012 IEEE CONFERENCE ON VISUAL ANALYTICS SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (VAST)	Distributed cognition and embodiment provide compelling models for how humans think and interact with the environment. Our examination of the use of large, high-resolution displays from an embodied perspective has lead directly to the development of a new sensemaking environment called Analyst's Workspace (AW). AW leverages the embodied resources made more accessible through the physical nature of the display to create a spatial workspace. By combining spatial layout of documents and other artifacts with an entity-centric, explorative investigative approach, AW aims to allow the analyst to externalize elements of the sensemaking process as a part of the investigation, integrated into the visual representations of the data itself. In this paper, we describe the various capabilities of AW and discuss the key principles and concepts underlying its design, emphasizing unique design principles for designing visual analytic tools for large, high-resolution displays.
392	distributed	2011	Vallee-Tourangeau, F; Euden, G; Hearn, V	Einstellung defused: Interactivity and mental set	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Mental set is observed when a familiar problem-solving strategy is applied to new problems that can be solved in simpler, more efficient ways. It is most famously illustrated in the water jar problems (Luchins, 1942). In these volume measurement problems, participants learn a rule to obtain an exact volume of liquid involving a complex combination of liquid transfer. Participants persevere in using this rule for new problems that can be solved with a much simpler rule. In two experiments presented here, participants completed the water jar task either in interactive conditions with actual water jars at a sink or in noninteractive conditions, with the problems presented on paper, as in the original Luchins procedure. Interactivity significantly reduced the degree of perseverance. In addition, participants' visuospatial skills significantly predicted the rate of perseverance (and the latencies to solution) in interactive but not in noninteractive conditions. These results underscore the importance of designing problem-solving experiments that engineer distributed cognitive systems in which participants coordinate internal and external resources in thinking.
393	distributed	2009	Susswein, N; Racine, TP	Wittgenstein and not-just-in-the-head cognition	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Wittgenstein's later writings criticize the idea that the mind is an intrinsically representational device. More or less clearly apprehending certain limitations of identifying all aspects of cognition with 'internal representation', certain theorists in a variety of disciplines have mostly independently reached similar conclusions, which are reflected in notions like 'distributed,' 'extended,' and situated' cognition. We explore the variety of purposes for which these terms have been introduced into psychological theorizing and relate these to Wittgenstein's philosophy of psychology. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
394	distributed	2009	Lucas, M; Moreira, A	Bridging Formal and Informal Learning - A Case Study on Students' Perceptions of the Use of Social Networking Tools	LEARNING IN THE SYNERGY OF MULTIPLE DISCIPLINES, PROCEEDINGS	Social networking tools have been enthusiastically heralded as a means to Support different learning types and innovative pedagogical practices. They have also been recognized as potential tools to promote informal learning. In this paper we describe work carried out using the synergy of social web tools, learning models and innovative pedagogical practices across a Masters Degree Course. Findings suggest that the use of these tools as a means to distribute an open and flexible learning environment fosters informal interactions and Such interactions are perceived by Students to have a significant impact over their formal learning outcomes.
395	distributed	2008	O'Gorman, R; Wilson, DS; Sheldon, KM	For the good of the group? Exploring group-level evolutionary adaptations using multilevel selection theory	GROUP DYNAMICS-THEORY RESEARCH AND PRACTICE	In this paper, we present an evolutionary framework, multilevel selection theory (MLS), that is highly amenable to existing social psychological theory and empiricism. MLS provides an interpretation of natural selection that shows how group-beneficial traits can evolve, a prevalent implication of social psychological data. We outline the theory and provide a number of example topics, focusing on prosociality, policing behavior, gossip, brainstorming, distributed cognition, and social identity. We also show that individual differences can produce important group-level outcomes depending on differential aggregation of individual types and relate this to the evolutionary dynamics underlying group traits. Drawing on existing work, we show how social psychologists can integrate this framework into their research program and suggest future directions for research.
396	distributed	2008	Becvar, A; Hollan, J; Hutchins, E	Representational Gestures as Cognitive Artifacts for Developing Theories in a Scientific Laboratory	RESOURCES, CO-EVOLUTION AND ARTIFACTS: THEORY IN CSCW	This research examines how representational gestures (Kita 2000), made by scientists during collaborative discussion in a biochemistry lab, are used in formulating scientific theory. By analyzing digital video of lab meetings and interviews, we find that representational gestures are frequently used to reference, modify, and embody portions of existing material structure such as models, diagrams, and graphs. Representational gestures appear to play a significant role in how scientists both conceptualize and communicate theories. We believe that representational gestures operate as instantiations of essential spatio-dynamic features that are not efficiently conveyed in other modalities, like language and graphical representations, and, as such, are essential resources for shaping theoretical understandings when used in collaborative, face-to-face activity. Gestures may also serve to align cognitive processes in a "community of practice" (Lave 1991) and can package theoretical conjectures into a single semiotic form that can be used symbolically to evoke a rich, shared conceptual history. We use a theoretical framework provided by distributed cognition and embodied cognition to examine jointly shared representational gestures as cognitive artifacts produced and modified by the biochemistry lab community during the practice of theory construction.
397	distributed	2007	Alterman, R	Representation, interaction, and intersubjectivity	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	What the participants share, their common "sense" of the world, creates a foundation, a framing, an orientation that enables human actors to see and act in coordination with one another. For recurrent activities, the methods the participants use to understand each other as they act change, making the intersubjective space in which actors operate richer and easier to produce. This article works through some of the issues that emerge from a close examination of intersubjectivity as it is managed through representation and interaction. The data that are presented document, in detail, a sequence of related interactions, within and across episodes of cooperation, where continuity and change can be observed. The emergence of conversational structure and coordinating representations are significant milestones in the long-term development of a representational practice that support the runtime co-construction of intersubjective space. Conversational structures emerge interactively to mediate recurrent points of coordination in the domain activity, and only secondarily the conversation itself. Coordinating representations change the representational practice of the participants by making it easier to manage their "shared view" of the collective work, enabling the participants to make progress, expand the field of the common activity, while exhibiting more control of if and when explicit grounding occurs.
398	distributed	2005	Donath, L; Spray, R; Thompson, NS; Alford, EM; Craig, N; Matthews, MA	Characterizing discourse among undergraduate researchers in an inquiry-based community of practice	JOURNAL OF ENGINEERING EDUCATION	Engineering education increasingly incorporates pedagogies that promote guided, inquiry-based, active learning within authentic "communities of practice". Such pedagogics apply observations made about workplace interaction: that knowledge is distributed across social and physical networks. However, the process through which multiple dimensions of learning occur within a network of distributed cognition-where every person contributes to the learning of every other person-calls for further investigation. The present study, set in an active learning environment, identifies seven speech events that characterize Enguistic processes of distributed cognition among undergraduate researchers in the Research Communications Studio (RCS) at the University of South Carolina. Close analysis of a small group session in the RCS revealed that participants enact critique, elicitation of critique, internalization, (direct and indirect) instruction, contextualization, explanation, and collaborative negotiation of knowledge throughout their interactions. Awareness of these speech events, which emerged from the analysis, may better equip engineering educators to optimize interactions in other active group learning environments and to facilitate such activities in more traditional pedagogical settings.
399	distributed	2003	Giere, RN	The role of computation in scientific cognition	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	This paper is a contribution to that part of science studies known as 'the cognitive study of science'. The general goal of such studies is to understand cognition as it occurs in modern science. Attention is restricted to higher energy physics (HEP) practiced at a research laboratory such as the European Centre for Nuclear Research (CERN). The dominant paradigm in cognitive science would have us understand the acquisition of know ledge regarding elementary particles in terms of a cognitive agent that performs computations on a symbolic representation. In the case of HEP, however, it is difficult to identify a cognitive agent or the required symbolic representations and algorithms. The notion of 'collective cognition' provides a step in the right direction, but does not go far enough. I argue that we need to invoke a more radical notion of 'distributed cognition' that explicitly includes artefacts. However, the inclusion of artefacts in scientific cognitive systems makes application of the cognition as computation paradigm even more problematic. I conclude that scientific cognitive systems are hybrid systems including both computational and dynamical artefacts as well as human agents. Scientific knowledge itself is best regarded as the impersonal product of a whole scientific community.
400	distributed	2016	Fusaroli, R; Tylen, K	Investigating Conversational Dynamics: Interactive Alignment, Interpersonal Synergy, and Collective Task Performance	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This study investigates interpersonal processes underlying dialog by comparing two approaches, interactive alignment and interpersonal synergy, and assesses how they predict collective performance in a joint task. While the interactive alignment approach highlights imitative patterns between interlocutors, the synergy approach points to structural organization at the level of the interactionsuch as complementary patterns straddling speech turns and interlocutors. We develop a general, quantitative method to assess lexical, prosodic, and speech/pause patterns related to the two approaches and their impact on collective performance in a corpus of task-oriented conversations. The results show statistical presence of patterns relevant for both approaches. However, synergetic aspects of dialog provide the best statistical predictors of collective performance and adding aspects of the alignment approach does not improve the model. This suggests that structural organization at the level of the interaction plays a crucial role in task-oriented conversations, possibly constraining and integrating processes related to alignment.
401	dynamical	2013	Tylen, K; Fusaroli, R; Bundgaard, PF; Ostergaard, S	Making sense together: A dynamical account of linguistic meaning-making	SEMIOTICA	How is linguistic communication possible? How do we come to share the same meanings of words and utterances? One classical position holds that human beings share a transcendental "platonic" ideality independent of individual cognition and language use (Frege 1948). Another stresses immanent linguistic relations (Saussure 1959), and yet another basic embodied structures as the ground for invariant aspects of meaning (Lakoff and Johnson 1999). Here we propose an alternative account in which the possibility for sharing meaning is motivated by four sources of structural stability: 1) the physical constraints and affordances of our surrounding material environment, 2) biological constraints of our human bodies, 3) social normative constraints of culture and society, and 4) the local history of social interactions. These structures and constraints interact in dynamical ways in actual language usage situations: local dialogical and - social dynamics motivate and stabilize the profiling of a conceptual space already - highly structured by our shared biology, culture, and environment. We will substantiate this perspective with reference to recent studies in experimental pragmatics and semiotics in which participants interact linguistically to solve cooperative tasks. Three main cases will be considered: The dynamic grounding of linguistic categories, the construction of conceptual models to relate entities in a scene, and the construction of shared conceptual scales for assessing and appraising subjective experiences.
402	dynamical	2012	Kirchhoff, MD	Extended cognition and fixed properties: steps to a third-wave version of extended cognition	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	This paper explores several paths a distinctive third wave of extended cognition might take. In so doing, I address a couple of shortcomings of first- and second-wave extended cognition associated with a tendency to conceive of the properties of internal and external processes as fixed and non-interchangeable. First, in the domain of cognitive transformation, I argue that a problematic tendency of the complementarity model is that it presupposes that socio-cultural resources augment but do not significantly transform the brain's representational capacities during diachronic development. In this paper I show that there is available a much more dynamical explanation-one taking the processes of the brain's enculturation into patterned practices as transforming the brain's representational capacities. Second, in the domain of cognitive assembly, I argue that another problematic tendency is an individualistic notion of cognitive agency, since it overlooks the active contribution of socio-cultural practices in the assembly process of extended cognitive systems. In contrast to an individualistic notion of cognitive agency, I explore the idea that it is possible to decentralize cognitive agency to include socio-cultural practices.
403	dynamical	2005	Petersson, KM	On the relevance of the neurobiological analogue of the finite-state architecture	NEUROCOMPUTING	We present two simple arguments for the potential relevance of a neurobiological analogue of the finite-state architecture. The first assumes the classical cognitive framework, is well-known, and is based on the assumption that the brain is finite with respect to its memory organization. The second is formulated within a general dynamical systems framework and is based on the assumption that the brain sustains some level of noise and/or does not utilize infinite precision processing. We briefly review the classical cognitive framework based on Church-Turing computability and non-classical approaches based on analog processing in dynamical systems. We conclude that the dynamical neurobiological analogue of the finite-state architecture appears to be relevant, at least at an implementational level, for cognitive brain systems. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
404	dynamical	2002	Tabor, W	The value of symbolic computation	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Standard generative linguistic theory, which uses discrete symbolic models of cognition, has some strengths and weaknesses. It is strong on providing a network of outposts that make scientific travel in the jungles of natural language feasible. It is weak in that it currently depends on the elaborate and unformalized use of intuition to develop critical supporting assumptions about each data point. In this regard, it is not in a position to characterize natural language systems in the lawful terms that ecological psychologists strive for. Connectionist learning models offer some help: They define lawful relations between linguistic environments and language systems. But our understanding of them is currently weak, especially when it comes to natural language syntax. Fortunately, symbolic linguistic analysis can help connectionism if the two meet via dynamical systems theory. I discuss a case in point: Insights from linguistic explorations of natural language syntax appear to have identified information structures that are particularly relevant to understanding ecologically appealing but analytically mysterious connectionist learning models.
405	dynamical	1998	Mandelblit, N; Zachar, O	The notion of dynamic unit: Conceptual developments in cognitive science	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We suggest ct common ground for alternative proposals in different domains of cognitive science which have previously seemed to have little in common. the underlying common theme is associated with a redefinition of the basic unit of analysis in each domain of thought. Our framework suggests ct definition of unity which is based not on inherent properties of the elements constituting the unit, but rather on dynamic patterns of correlation across the elements. We introduce a set of features that characterize the new dynamic units, and distinguish them from traditional units of analysis. A conceptual connection is made with the identification of elementary units in modern physics theories, as well as with concepts and structures in the study of complex dynamical systems and connectionism. The paper analyses the evolution of the concept of unit in different domains of thought in cognitive science, and examines the proposed framework of "dynamic unity" with regard to various theoretical problems within each domain. The particular cognitive science issues discussed in the paper include: (1) the binding problem in the brain; (2) the mental unit of conceptual organization; (3) defining 'wordhood' in linguistics; and (4) identifying the unit of cognition in the natural environment.
406	dynamical	2015	Kringelbach, ML; McIntosh, AR; Ritter, P; Jirsa, VK; Deco, G	The Reciscovery of Slowness: Exploring the Timing of Cognition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Slowness of thought is not necessarily a handicap but could be a signature of optimal brain function. Emerging evidence shows that neuroanatomical and dynamical constraints of the human brain shape its functionality in optimal ways, characterized by slowness during task-based cognition in the context of spontaneous resting-state activity. This activity can be described mechanistically by whole-brain computational modeling that relates directly to optimality in the context of theories arguing for metastability in the brain. We discuss the role for optimal processing of information in the context of cognitive, task-related activity, and propose that combining multi-modal neuroimaging and explicit whole-brain models focused on the timing of functional dynamics can help to uncover fundamental rules of brain function in health and disease.
407	dynamical	2013	Villacorta-Atienza, JA; Makarov, VA	Neural Network Architecture for Cognitive Navigation in Dynamic Environments	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NETWORKS AND LEARNING SYSTEMS	Navigation in time-evolving environments with moving targets and obstacles requires cognitive abilities widely demonstrated by even simplest animals. However, it is a long-standing challenging problem for artificial agents. Cognitive autonomous robots coping with this problem must solve two essential tasks: 1) understand the environment in terms of what may happen and how I can deal with this and 2) learn successful experiences for their further use in an automatic subconscious way. The recently introduced concept of compact internal representation (CIR) provides the ground for both the tasks. CIR is a specific cognitive map that compacts time-evolving situations into static structures containing information necessary for navigation. It belongs to the class of global approaches, i.e., it finds trajectories to a target when they exist but also detects situations when no solution can be found. Here we extend the concept of situations with mobile targets. Then using CIR as a core, we propose a closed-loop neural network architecture consisting of conscious and subconscious pathways for efficient decision-making. The conscious pathway provides solutions to novel situations if the default subconscious pathway fails to guide the agent to a target. Employing experiments with roving robots and numerical simulations, we show that the proposed architecture provides the robot with cognitive abilities and enables reliable and flexible navigation in realistic time-evolving environments. We prove that the subconscious pathway is robust against uncertainty in the sensory information. Thus if a novel situation is similar but not identical to the previous experience (because of, e. g., noisy perception) then the subconscious pathway is able to provide an effective solution.
408	dynamical	2010	van der Velde, F; de Kamps, M	Learning of control in a neural architecture of grounded language processing	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Human cognition is characterized by three important features: productivity, dynamics and grounding. These features can be integrated in a neural architecture of language processing. The representations in this architecture always remain "in situ", because they are grounded in perception, action, emotion, associations and (semantic) relations. The neural architecture shows how these representations can be combined in a productive manner, and how dynamics influences this process. The constraints that each of these features impose on each other result in an architecture in which local and global aspects interact in processing and learning. The architecture consists of neural "binding" mechanisms that produce (novel) sentence structures on the fly. Here, we discuss how the control of this binding process can be learned. We trained a feedforward network (FFN) for this task. The results show that information from the architecture is needed as input to learn control of binding. Thus, the control system is recurrent. We show that this recurrent system can learn control of binding for basic (but recursive) sentence structures. After learning, the binding process behaves well on a series of test sentences, including sentences with (unlimited) embeddings. However, for some of these sentences, difficulties arise due to dynamical binding conflicts in the architecture. We also discuss and illustrate the potential influence that the dynamics in the architecture could have on the binding process. (C) 2008 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
409	dynamical	1998	Mitchell, M	A complex-systems perspective on the "computation vs. dynamics" debate in cognitive science	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTIETH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	I review the purported opposition between computational and dynamical approaches in cognitive science. I argue that both computational and dynamical notions will be necessary for a full explanatory account of cognition, and give a perspective on how recent research in complex systems can lead to a much needed rapprochement between computational and dynamical styles of explanation.
410	dynamical	2013	Kozma, R; Puljic, M	Hierarchical random cellular neural networks for system-level brain-like signal processing	NEURAL NETWORKS	Sensory information processing and cognition in brains are modeled using dynamic systems theory. The brain's dynamic state is described by a trajectory evolving in a high-dimensional state space. We introduce a hierarchy of random cellular automata as the mathematical tools to describe the spatio-temporal dynamics of the cortex. The corresponding brain model is called neuropercolation which has distinct advantages compared to traditional models using differential equations, especially in describing spatio-temporal discontinuities in the form of phase transitions. Phase transitions demarcate singularities in brain operations at critical conditions, which are viewed as hallmarks of higher cognition and awareness experience. The introduced Monte-Carlo simulations obtained by parallel computing point to the importance of computer implementations using very large-scale integration (VLSI) and analog platforms. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
411	dynamical	2012	Silberstein, M; Chemero, A	Complexity and Extended Phenomenological-Cognitive Systems	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The complex systems approach to cognitive science invites a new understanding of extended cognitive systems. According to this understanding, extended cognitive systems are heterogenous, composed of brain, body, and niche, non-linearly coupled to one another. This view of cognitive systems, as non-linearly coupled brainbodyniche systems, promises conceptual and methodological advances. In this article we focus on two of these. First, the fundamental interdependence among brain, body, and niche makes it possible to explain extended cognition without invoking representations or computation. Second, cognition and conscious experience can be understood as a single phenomenon, eliminating fruitless philosophical discussion of qualia and the so-called hard problem of consciousness. What we call extended phenomenological-cognitive systems are relational and dynamical entities, with interactions among heterogeneous parts at multiple spatial and temporal scales.
412	dynamical	2009	Mizraji, E; Pomi, A; Valle-Lisboa, JC	Dynamic searching in the brain	COGNITIVE NEURODYNAMICS	Cognitive functions rely on the extensive use of information stored in the brain, and the searching for the relevant information for solving some problem is a very complex task. Human cognition largely uses biological search engines, and we assume that to study cognitive function we need to understand the way these brain search engines work. The approach we favor is to study multi-modular network models, able to solve particular problems that involve searching for information. The building blocks of these multimodular networks are the context dependent memory models we have been using for almost 20 years. These models work by associating an output to the Kronecker product of an input and a context. Input, context and output are vectors that represent cognitive variables. Our models constitute a natural extension of the traditional linear associator. We show that coding the information in vectors that are processed through association matrices, allows for a direct contact between these memory models and some procedures that are now classical in the Information Retrieval field. One essential feature of context-dependent models is that they are based on the thematic packing of information, whereby each context points to a particular set of related concepts. The thematic packing can be extended to multimodular networks involving input-output contexts, in order to accomplish more complex tasks. Contexts act as passwords that elicit the appropriate memory to deal with a query. We also show toy versions of several 'neuromimetic' devices that solve cognitive tasks as diverse as decision making or word sense disambiguation. The functioning of these multimodular networks can be described as dynamical systems at the level of cognitive variables.
413	dynamical	2009	Mirolli, M; Parisi, D	Language as a Cognitive Tool	MINDS AND MACHINES	The standard view of classical cognitive science stated that cognition consists in the manipulation of language-like structures according to formal rules. Since cognition is 'linguistic' in itself, according to this view language is just a complex communication system and does not influence cognitive processes in any substantial way. This view has been criticized from several perspectives and a new framework (Embodied Cognition) has emerged that considers cognitive processes as non-symbolic and heavily dependent on the dynamical interactions between the cognitive system and its environment. But notwithstanding the successes of the embodied cognitive science in explaining low-level cognitive behaviors, it is still not clear whether and how it can scale up for explaining high-level cognition. In this paper we argue that this can be done by considering the role of language as a cognitive tool: i.e. how language transforms basic cognitive functions in the high-level functions that are characteristic of human cognition. In order to do that, we review some computational models that substantiate this view with respect to categorization and memory. Since these models are based on a very rudimentary form of non-syntactic 'language' we argue that the use of language as a cognitive tool might have been an early discovery in hominid evolution, and might have played a substantial role in the evolution of language itself.
414	dynamical	2008	Montebelli, A; Herrera, C; Ziemke, T	On cognition as dynamical coupling: an analysis of behavioral attractor dynamics	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	The interaction of brain, body, and environment can result in complex behavior with rich dynamics, even for relatively simple agents. Such dynamics are, however, often difficult to analyze. In this article, we explore the case of a simple simulated robotic agent, equipped with a reactive neurocontroller and an energy level, which the agent has been evolved to recharge. A dynamical systems analysis shows that a non-neural internal state (energy level), despite its simplicity, dynamically modulates the behavioral attractors of the agent-environment system, such that the robot's behavioral repertoire is continually adapted to its current situation and energy level. What emerges is a dynamic, non-deterministic, and highly self-organized action selection mechanism, originating from the dynamical coupling of four systems (non-neural internal states, neurocontroller, body, and environment) operating at very different timescales.
415	dynamical	2003	Giere, RN	The role of computation in scientific cognition	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	This paper is a contribution to that part of science studies known as 'the cognitive study of science'. The general goal of such studies is to understand cognition as it occurs in modern science. Attention is restricted to higher energy physics (HEP) practiced at a research laboratory such as the European Centre for Nuclear Research (CERN). The dominant paradigm in cognitive science would have us understand the acquisition of know ledge regarding elementary particles in terms of a cognitive agent that performs computations on a symbolic representation. In the case of HEP, however, it is difficult to identify a cognitive agent or the required symbolic representations and algorithms. The notion of 'collective cognition' provides a step in the right direction, but does not go far enough. I argue that we need to invoke a more radical notion of 'distributed cognition' that explicitly includes artefacts. However, the inclusion of artefacts in scientific cognitive systems makes application of the cognition as computation paradigm even more problematic. I conclude that scientific cognitive systems are hybrid systems including both computational and dynamical artefacts as well as human agents. Scientific knowledge itself is best regarded as the impersonal product of a whole scientific community.
416	dynamical	1997	Eliasmith, C	Computation and dynamical models of mind	MINDS AND MACHINES	Van Gelder (1995) has recently spearheaded a movement to challenge the dominance of connectionist and classicist models in cognitive science. The dynamical conception of cognition is van Gelder's replacement for the computation bound paradigms provided by connectionism and classicism. He relies on the Watt governor to fulfill the role of a dynamicist Turing machine and claims that the Motivational Oscillatory Theory (MOT) provides a sound empirical basis for dynamicism. In other words, the Watt governor is to be the theoretical exemplar of the class of systems necessary for cognition and MOT is an empirical instantiation of that class. However, I shall argue that neither the Watt governor nor MOT successfully fulfill these prescribed roles. This failure, along with van Gelder's peculiar use of the concept of computation and his struggle with representationalism, prevent him from providing a convincing alternative to current cognitive theories.
417	dynamical	1997	Horgan, T	Connectionism and the philosophical foundations of cognitive science	METAPHILOSOPHY	0
418	dynamical	2016	Fusaroli, R; Tylen, K	Investigating Conversational Dynamics: Interactive Alignment, Interpersonal Synergy, and Collective Task Performance	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This study investigates interpersonal processes underlying dialog by comparing two approaches, interactive alignment and interpersonal synergy, and assesses how they predict collective performance in a joint task. While the interactive alignment approach highlights imitative patterns between interlocutors, the synergy approach points to structural organization at the level of the interactionsuch as complementary patterns straddling speech turns and interlocutors. We develop a general, quantitative method to assess lexical, prosodic, and speech/pause patterns related to the two approaches and their impact on collective performance in a corpus of task-oriented conversations. The results show statistical presence of patterns relevant for both approaches. However, synergetic aspects of dialog provide the best statistical predictors of collective performance and adding aspects of the alignment approach does not improve the model. This suggests that structural organization at the level of the interaction plays a crucial role in task-oriented conversations, possibly constraining and integrating processes related to alignment.
419	dynamical	2013	Cusumano, JP; Dingwell, JB	Movement variability near goal equivalent manifolds: Fluctuations, control, and model-based analysis	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	Fluctuations in the repeated performance of human movements have been the subject of intense scrutiny because they are generally believed to contain important information about the function and health of the neuromotor system. A variety of approaches has been brought to bear to study these fluctuations. However it is frequently difficult to understand how to synthesize different perspectives to give a coherent picture. Here, we describe a conceptual framework for the experimental study of motor variability that helps to unify geometrical methods, which focus on the role of motor redundancy, with dynamical methods that characterize the error-correcting processes regulating the performance of skilled tasks. We describe how goal functions, which mathematically specify the task strategy being employed, together with ideas from the control of redundant systems, allow one to formulate simple, experimentally testable dynamical models of inter-trial fluctuations. After reviewing the basic theory, we present a list of five general hypotheses on the structure of fluctuations that can be expected in repeated trials of goal-directed tasks. We review recent experimental applications of this general approach, and show how it can be used to precisely characterize the error-correcting control used by human subjects. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
420	dynamical	2013	Hu, SW; Liu, XH; Li, JH	Steady-state modeling of axial heterogeneity in CFB risers based on one-dimensional EMMS model	CHEMICAL ENGINEERING SCIENCE	Axial heterogeneity in circulating fluidized bed (CFB) risers is very important to the design of fluidized bed reactors, which is, however, still unable to be described in theory. Based on a successful description of local hydrodynamics in gas solid flow, the Energy-Minimization Multi-Scale (EMMS) theory further relates axial hydrodynamics with local and global stability conditions in the system, providing a theoretical way to account for the axial heterogeneity in CFB risers. This research reveals that the interaction between particle clusters and the dilute phase as well as the surrounding dense phase has a significant effect on their dynamical evolution. Similar to cluster diameter in the EMMS theory, number density of particle clusters serving as a comprehensive indicator to the heterogeneity in gas solid flow is constrained by both local and global stability conditions in the system. With the above cognition, a one-dimensional EMMS model is developed to perform steady-state modeling of the axial heterogeneity in CFB risers. The model successfully reproduces a complete transition zone and the parametric effects on it at the choking condition. The S-shaped axial voidage profile calculated by the one-dimensional EMMS model is in good agreement with the experimental results in gas solid fast fluidization. This research is not only the first step toward implementing the three-scale computation in virtual process engineering (VPE), but also of referential significance to industrial chemical process development. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
421	dynamical	2013	Chemero, A	Radical Embodied Cognitive Science	REVIEW OF GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper briefly introduces radical embodied cognitive science (RECS) and places it in historical perspective. Radical embodied cognitive science is an interdisciplinary approach to psychology that combines ideas from the phenomenological tradition with ecological psychology and dynamical systems modeling. It is argued that radical embodied cognitive science has a long history; it is as a direct descendent of the Jamesian functionalist approach to psychology. This approach to psychology is contrasted with the current trend of supplementing standard cognitive psychology with occasional references to the body, in contrast with these trends, radical embodied cognitive science is skeptical of the explanatory usefulness of mental representations. The future prospects of radical embodied cognitive science and the broader functionalist framework are discussed.
422	dynamical	2012	Lipinski, J; Schneegans, S; Sandamirskaya, Y; Spencer, JP; Schoner, G	A Neurobehavioral Model of Flexible Spatial Language Behaviors	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	We propose a neural dynamic model that specifies how low-level visual processes can be integrated with higher level cognition to achieve flexible spatial language behaviors. This model uses real-word visual input that is linked to relational spatial descriptions through a neural mechanism for reference frame transformations. We demonstrate that the system can extract spatial relations from visual scenes, select items based on relational spatial descriptions, and perform reference object selection in a single unified architecture. We further show that the performance of the system is consistent with behavioral data in humans by simulating results from 2 independent empirical studies, I spatial term rating task and 1 study of reference object selection behavior. The architecture we present thereby achieves a high degree of task flexibility under realistic stimulus conditions. At the same time, it also provides a detailed neural grounding for complex behavioral and cognitive processes.
423	dynamical	2012	Kiverstein, J	The Meaning of Embodiment	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	There is substantial disagreement among philosophers of embodied cognitive science about the meaning of embodiment. In what follows, I describe three different views that can be found in the current literature. I show how this debate centers around the question of whether the science of embodied cognition can retain the computer theory of mind. One view, which I will label body functionalism, takes the body to play the functional role of linking external resources for problem solving with internal biological machinery. Embodiment is thus understood in terms of the role the body plays in supporting the computational circuits that realize cognition. Body enactivism argues by contrast that no computational account of cognition can account for the role of commonsense knowledge in our everyday practical engagement with the world. I will attempt a reconciliation of these seemingly opposed views.
424	dynamical	2012	Froese, T; Lenay, C; Ikegami, T	Imitation by social interaction? Analysis of a minimal agent-based model of the correspondence problem	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	One of the major challenges faced by explanations of imitation is the "correspondence problem": how is an agent able to match its bodily expression to the observed bodily expression of another agent, especially when there is no possibility of external self-observation? Current theories only consider the possibility of an innate or acquired matching mechanism belonging to an isolated individual. In this paper we evaluate an alternative that situates the explanation of imitation in the inter-individual dynamics of the interaction process itself. We implemented a minimal model of two interacting agents based on a recent psychological study of imitative behavior during minimalist perceptual crossing. The agents cannot sense the configuration of their own body, and do not have access to other's body configuration, either. And yet surprisingly they are still capable of converging on matching bodily configurations. Analysis revealed that the agents solved this version of the correspondence problem in terms of collective properties of the interaction process. Contrary to the assumption that such properties merely serve as external input or scaffolding for individual mechanisms, it was found that the behavioral dynamics were distributed across the model as a whole.
425	dynamical	2010	Lahlou, S	Digitization and transmission of human experience	SOCIAL SCIENCE INFORMATION SUR LES SCIENCES SOCIALES	Transmission of human experience is essential for many purposes. It has two aspects: content and social relations. Digital technologies can solve some of the classic issues around the capture and transmission of human experience. Using these new technical affordances as a basis, this article presents a framework to capture and describe human activity and experience based on video and cooperative explicitation of activity trajectories with the subject, using a transition model inspired by the formalism of dynamical systems. The article also introduces this special issue, 'Digitize and Transfer', and gives an overview of its contents.
426	dynamical	2009	Gerth, S; Graben, PB	Unifying syntactic theory and sentence processing difficulty through a connectionist minimalist parser	COGNITIVE NEURODYNAMICS	Syntactic theory provides a rich array of representational assumptions about linguistic knowledge and processes. Such detailed and independently motivated constraints on grammatical knowledge ought to play a role in sentence comprehension. However most grammar-based explanations of processing difficulty in the literature have attempted to use grammatical representations and processes per se to explain processing difficulty. They did not take into account that the description of higher cognition in mind and brain encompasses two levels: on the one hand, at the macrolevel, symbolic computation is performed, and on the other hand, at the microlevel, computation is achieved through processes within a dynamical system. One critical question is therefore how linguistic theory and dynamical systems can be unified to provide an explanation for processing effects. Here, we present such a unification for a particular account to syntactic theory: namely a parser for Stabler's Minimalist Grammars, in the framework of Smolensky's Integrated Connectionist/Symbolic architectures. In simulations we demonstrate that the connectionist minimalist parser produces predictions which mirror global empirical findings from psycholinguistic research.
427	dynamical	2009	Barakova, EI; Lourens, T	Mirror neuron framework yields representations for robot interaction	NEUROCOMPUTING	Common coding is a functional principle that underlies the mirror neuron paradigm. It insures actual parity between perception and action, since the perceived and performed actions are equivalently and simultaneously represented within the mirror neuron system. Based on the parity of this representation we show how the mirror neuron system may facilitate the interaction between two robots. Synchronization between neuron groups in different structures of the mirror neuron system are on the basis of the interaction behavior. The robotic simulation is used to illustrate several interactions. The resulting synchronization and turn taking behaviors show the potential of the mirror neuron paradigm for designing of socially meaningful behaviors. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved,
428	dynamical	2008	Negrello, M; Pasemann, F	Attractor landscapes and active tracking: The neurodynamics of embodied action	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Behavior is the product of three intertwining dynamics: of the world, of the body and of internal control structures. Neurodynamics focuses on the dynamics of neural control, while observing interfaces with the world and the body. From this perspective, we present a dynamical analysis of embodied recurrent neural networks evolved to control a cybernetic device that solves a problem in active tracking. For competent action selection, agents must rely on the attractor landscapes of the evolved networks. Insights into how the networks achieve this are given in terms of the network's dynamical substrate, which highlights the role of the network's inherent attractors as they change as a function of the input parameters (sensors). We introduce some terminological extensions to neurodynamics to allow for a more precise formulation of how attractor changes influence behavior generation: in particular, attractor landscapes, which are the space of all attractors accessible through coherent parametrizations of the network (input stimuli), and the meta-transient, which resolves behavior by approaching attractors as they shape-shift. We apply these concepts to the analysis of interesting behaviors of the tracking device, such as temporal contextual dependency, chaotic transitory regimes in moments of ambiguity, and implicit mapping of environmental asymmetricities in the response of the device. Finally, we discuss the relevance of the concepts introduced in terms of autonomy, learning, and modularity.
429	dynamical	1996	Garson, JW	Cognition poised at the edge of chaos: A complex alternative to a symbolic mind	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper explores a line of argument against the classical paradigm in cognitive science that is based upon properties of non-linear dynamical systems, especially in their chaotic and near-chaotic behavior. Systems of this Kind are capable of generating information-rich macro behavior that could be useful to cognition. I argue that a brain operating at the edge of chaos could generate high-complexity cognition in this way. If this hypothesis is correct, then the symbolic processing methodology in cognitive science faces serious obstacles. A symbolic description of the mind will be extremely difficult, and even if it is achieved to some approximation, there will still be reasons for rejecting the hypothesis that the brain is in fact a symbolic processor.
430	dynamical	2015	Walton, AE; Richardson, MJ; Langland-Hassan, P; Chemero, A	Improvisation and the self-organization of multiple musical bodies	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Understanding everyday behavior relies heavily upon understanding our ability to improvise, how we are able to continuously anticipate and adapt in order to coordinate with our environment and others. Here we consider the ability of musicians to improvise, where they must spontaneously coordinate their actions with co-performers in order to produce novel musical expressions. Investigations of this behavior have traditionally focused on describing the organization of cognitive structures. The focus, here, however, is on the ability of the time-evolving patterns of inter-musician movement coordination as revealed by the mathematical tools of complex dynamical systems to provide a new understanding of what potentiates the novelty of spontaneous musical action. We demonstrate this approach through the application of cross wavelet spectral analysis, which isolates the strength and patterning of the behavioral coordination that occurs between improvising musicians across a range of nested time-scales. Revealing the sophistication of the previously unexplored dynamics of movement coordination between improvising musicians is an important step toward understanding how creative musical expressions emerge from the spontaneous coordination of multiple musical bodies.
431	dynamical	2014	Tani, J	Self-Organization and Compositionality in Cognitive Brains: A Neurorobotics Study	PROCEEDINGS OF THE IEEE	The most pressing question about cognitive brains is how they support the compositionality that enables combinatorial manipulations of images, thoughts, and actions. When addressing this problem with synthetic modeling, the conventional idea prevalent in artificial intelligence and cognitive science, generally, is to assume hybrid systems and corresponding neural network models, where higher order cognition is realized by means of symbolic representation and lower sensory-motor processes by analog processing. However, the crucial problem with such approaches is that the symbols represented at higher order cognitive levels cannot be grounded naturally in sensory-motor reality. The former are defined in a discrete space without any metric, and the latter are defined in a continuous space with a physical metric. These, therefore, cannot directly interact with each other, regardless of the interface that is assigned between them. The proposal in the current paper is to reconstruct higher order cognition by means of continuous neurodynamic systems that can elaborate delicate interactions with the sensory-motor level while sharing the same metric space. Our neurorobotics experiments-including language-action associations and the learning of goal-directed actions-show that the compositionality necessary for higher order cognitive tasks can be acquired by means of self-organizing dynamic structures, via interactive learning between the top-down intentional process of acting on the physical world and the bottom-up recognition of perceptual reality. Using robotic simulations, the current paper demonstrates that nonlinear dynamic phenomena, such as bifurcations and the chaotic dynamics induced by unstable fixed points, could play essential roles in realizing higher order functions.
432	dynamical	2014	Duran, ND; Dale, R	Perspective-taking in dialogue as self-organization under social constraints	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	We present a dynamical systems account of how simple social information influences perspective-taking. Our account is motivated by the notion that perspective-taking may obey common dynamic principles with perceptuomotor coupling. We turn to the prominent HKB dynamical model of motor coordination, drawing from basic principles of self-organization to describe how conversational perspective-taking unfolds in a low-dimensional attractor landscape. We begin by simulating experimental data taken from a simple instruction-following task, in which participants have different expectations about their interaction partner. By treating belief states as different values of a control parameter, we show that data generated by a basic dynamical process fits overall egocentric and other-centric response distributions, the time required for participants to enact a response on a trial-by-trial basis, and the action dynamics exhibited in individual trials. We end by discussing the theoretical significance of dynamics in dialog, arguing that high-level coordination such as perspective-taking may obey similar dynamics as perceptuomotor coordination, pointing to common principles of adaptivity and flexibility during dialog. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
433	dynamical	2012	Riley, MA; Holden, JG	Dynamics of cognition	WILEY INTERDISCIPLINARY REVIEWS-COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The application of dynamical systems methods and concepts to cognitive phenomena has broadened the range of testable hypotheses and theoretical narratives available to cognitive scientists. Most research in cognitive dynamics tests the degree to which observed cognitive performance is consistent with one or another core phenomena associated with complex dynamical systems, such as tests for phase transitions, coupling among processes, or scaling laws. Early applications of dynamical systems theory to perceptual-motor performance and developmental psychology paved the way for more recent applications of dynamical systems analyses, models, and theoretical concepts in areas such as learning, memory, speech perception, decision making, problem solving, and reading, among others. Reviews of the empirical results of both foundational and contemporary cognitive dynamics are provided. (C) 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
434	dynamical	2012	Stadnitski, T	Some Critical Aspects of Fractality Research	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS PSYCHOLOGY AND LIFE SCIENCES	Numerous empirical studies identified fractal noise in human behavior. According to the theory of Self Organized Criticality, long memory 1/f scaling is a signature of stable and adaptive complex dynamical systems. This article discusses the following aspects of fractality research: (a) generation of fractal noise in simulation studies: (6) quality of some popular estimators of fractal parameters; (c) measurement artifacts in cognitive performances. 36 lime series obtained in response tasks experiments under three different task conditions serve as empirical basis.
435	dynamical	2011	Hotton, S; Yoshimi, J	Extending Dynamical Systems Theory to Model Embodied Cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We define a mathematical formalism based on the concept of an ''open dynamical system" and show how it can be used to model embodied cognition. This formalism extends classical dynamical systems theory by distinguishing a ''total system'' (which models an agent in an environment) and an ''agent system'' (which models an agent by itself), and it includes tools for analyzing the collections of overlapping paths that occur in an embedded agent's state space. To illustrate the way this formalism can be applied, several neural network models are embedded in a simple model environment. Such phenomena as masking, perceptual ambiguity, and priming are then observed. We also use this formalism to reinterpret examples from the embodiment literature, arguing that it provides for a more thorough analysis of the relevant phenomena.
436	dynamical	2007	Khrennikov, AY	Toward an adequate mathematical model of mental space: Conscious/unconscious dynamics on m-adic trees	BIOSYSTEMS	We try to perform geometrization of cognitive science and psychology by representing information states of cognitive systems by points of mental space given by a hierarchic m-adic tree. Associations are represented by balls and ideas by collections of balls. We consider dynamics of ideas based on lifting of dynamics of mental points. We apply our dynamical model for modeling of flows of unconscious and conscious information in the human brain. In a series of models, Models 1-3, we consider cognitive systems with increasing complexity of psychological behavior determined by structure of flows of associations and ideas. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
437	dynamical	2007	Arecchi, FT	Physics of cognition: Complexity and creativity	EUROPEAN PHYSICAL JOURNAL-SPECIAL TOPICS	A scientific problem described within a given code is mapped by a corresponding computational problem, We call complexity ( algorithmic) the bit length of the shortest instruction that solves the problem. Deterministic chaos in general affects a dynamical system making the corresponding problem experimentally and computationally heavy, since one must reset the initial conditions at a rate higher than that of information loss ( Kolmogorov entropy). One can control chaos by adding to the system new degrees of freedom ( information swapping: information lost by chaos is replaced by that arising from the new degrees of freedom). This implies a change of code, or a new augmented model. Within a single code, changing hypotheses means. xing different sets of control parameters, each with a different a- priori probability, to be then confirmed and transformed into an a- posteriori probability via Bayes theorem. Sequential application of Bayes rule is nothing else than the Darwinian strategy in evolutionary biology. The sequence is a steepest ascent algorithm, which stops once maximum probability has been reached. At this point the hypothesis exploration stops. By changing code ( and hence the set of relevant variables) one can start again to formulate new classes of hypotheses. We call creativity the action of code changing, which is guided by hints not formalized within the previous code, whence not accessible to a computer. We call semantic complexity the number of different scientific codes, or models, that describe a situation. It is however a fuzzy concept, in so far as this number changes due to interaction of the operator with the context. These considerations are illustrated with reference to a cognitive task, starting from synchronization of neuron arrays in a perceptual area and tracing the putative path toward a model building. Since this is a report on work in progress, we skip technicalities in order to stress the gist of the question, and provide references to more detailed work.
438	dynamical	2006	Kozma, R; Fukuda, T	Intentional dynamic systems: Fundamental concepts and applications	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS	The concepts of meaning and intentionality play a central role in understanding animal and human intelligence, and they are crucial for creating artifacts with intelligent behavior and robust autonomy in real-life scenarios. The Intentional Dynamical Systems Symposium IDS'04 was held in Memphis, Tennessee, April 26-27, 2004, and it gave a forum to researchers working on the intensively developing interdisciplinary area of dynamical approaches to embedded cognition, based on self-organized development of autonomous systems. The present issue contains selected papers from the symposium addressing dynamical aspects of intentionality and intelligent behavior. All papers have been carefully peer reviewed to meet the standards of the journal. Contributions to this issue cover neuro-physiological foundations of human cortical dynamics, computational neuro-pharmacology and hippocampal modeling, development of KIII models for cognitive map generation, utilization of KII and KIII sets as logical gates and associative memories for odor recognition, evolutionary development of control for autonomous robot, and incorporating emotional representations in interactive robots. (c) 2006 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
439	dynamical	2015	Araujo, D; Davids, K; Diniz, A; Rocha, L; Santos, JC; Dias, G; Fernandes, O	Ecological dynamics of continuous and categorical decision-making: The regatta start in sailing	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SPORT SCIENCE	Ecological dynamics of decision-making in the sport of sailing exemplifies emergent, conditionally coupled, co-adaptive behaviours. In this study, observation of the coupling dynamics of paired boats during competitive sailing showed that decision-making can be modelled as a self-sustained, co-adapting system of informationally coupled oscillators (boats). Bytracing the spatial-temporal displacements of the boats, time series analyses (autocorrelations, periodograms and running correlations) revealed that trajectories of match racing boats are coupled more than 88% of the time during a pre-start race, via continuous, competing co-adaptions between boats. Results showed that both the continuously selected trajectories of the sailors (12 years of age) and their categorical starting point locations were examples of emergent decisions. In this dynamical conception of decision-making behaviours, strategic positioning (categorical) and continuous displacement of a boat over the course in match-race sailing emerged as a function of interacting task, personal and environmental constraints. Results suggest how key interacting constraints could be manipulated in practice to enhance sailors' perceptual attunement to them in competition.
440	dynamical	2013	Shapiro, LA	Dynamics and Cognition	MINDS AND MACHINES	Many who advocate dynamical systems approaches to cognitive science believe themselves committed to the thesis of extended cognition and to the rejection of representation. I argue that this belief is false. In part, this misapprehension rests on a warrantless re-conception of cognition as intelligent behavior. In part also, it rests on thinking that conceptual issues can be resolved empirically. Once these issues are sorted out, the way is cleared for a dynamical systems approach to cognition that is free to retain the standard conception of cognition as taking place in the head, and over representations.
441	dynamical	2013	Froese, T; Gershenson, C; Rosenblueth, DA	The Dynamically Extended Mind A Minimal Modeling Case Study	2013 IEEE CONGRESS ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION (CEC)	The extended mind hypothesis has stimulated much interest in cognitive science. However, its core claim, i.e. that the process of cognition can extend beyond the brain via the body and into the environment, has been heavily criticized. A prominent critique of this claim holds that when some part of the world is coupled to a cognitive system this does not necessarily entail that the part is also constitutive of that cognitive system. This critique is known as the "coupling-constitution fallacy". In this paper we respond to this reductionist challenge by using an evolutionary robotics approach to create a minimal model of two acoustically coupled agents. We demonstrate how the interaction process as a whole has properties that cannot be reduced to the contributions of the isolated agents. We also show that the neural dynamics of the coupled agents has formal properties that are inherently impossible for those neural networks in isolation. By keeping the complexity of the model to an absolute minimum, we are able to illustrate how the coupling-constitution fallacy is in fact based on an inadequate understanding of the constitutive role of nonlinear interactions in dynamical systems theory.
442	dynamical	2012	Wallot, S; Van Orden, G	Ultrafast Cognition	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	Observations of ultrafast cognition in human performance challenge intuitive information processing and computation metaphors of cognitive processing. Instances of ultrafast cognition are marked by ultrafast response times of reliable, accurate responses to a relatively complex stimulus. Ultrafast means response times that are as fast as a single feedforward burst of activity across the nervous system connecting eye to hand. Thus the information processing and computation metaphors in question are those in which some amount of time is required to decide and initiate a response, over and above the minimum time required, physiologically, for the eye-hand chain of action potentials - these are metaphors in which the brain does work that has a measurable duration in time. Ultrafast cognition can be explained by synergies spanning the mind and body. Synergies are temporary dynamical structures that anticipate context-appropriate behaviour An anticipatory state poises the mind and body in symmetry among equivalent options for behaviour and only a minimal change in context, favouring one option over any other is sufficient to break symmetry and enact an ultrafast cognitive response.
443	dynamical	2011	Afraimovich, V; Young, T; Muezzinoglu, MK; Rabinovich, MI	Nonlinear Dynamics of Emotion-Cognition Interaction: When Emotion Does not Destroy Cognition?	BULLETIN OF MATHEMATICAL BIOLOGY	Emotion (i.e., spontaneous motivation and subsequent implementation of a behavior) and cognition (i.e., problem solving by information processing) are essential to how we, as humans, respond to changes in our environment. Recent studies in cognitive science suggest that emotion and cognition are subserved by different, although heavily integrated, neural systems. Understanding the time-varying relationship of emotion and cognition is a challenging goal with important implications for neuroscience. We formulate here the dynamical model of emotion-cognition interaction that is based on the following principles: (1) the temporal evolution of cognitive and emotion modes are captured by the incoming stimuli and competition within and among themselves (competition principle); (2) metastable states exist in the unified emotion-cognition phase space; and (3) the brain processes information with robust and reproducible transients through the sequence of metastable states. Such a model can take advantage of the often ignored temporal structure of the emotion-cognition interaction to provide a robust and generalizable method for understanding the relationship between brain activation and complex human behavior. The mathematical image of the robust and reproducible transient dynamics is a Stable Heteroclinic Sequence (SHS), and the Stable Heteroclinic Channels (SHCs). These have been hypothesized to be possible mechanisms that lead to the sequential transient behavior observed in networks. We investigate the modularity of SHCs, i.e., given a SHS and a SHC that is supported in one part of a network, we study conditions under which the SHC pertaining to the cognition will continue to function in the presence of interfering activity with other parts of the network, i.e., emotion.
444	dynamical	2010	Vimal, RLP	MATCHING AND SELECTION OF A SPECIFIC SUBJECTIVE EXPERIENCE: CONJUGATE MATCHING AND EXPERIENCE	JOURNAL OF INTEGRATIVE NEUROSCIENCE	We incorporate the dual-mode concept in our dual-aspect PE-SE (proto-experience-subjective experience) framework. The two modes are: (1) the non-tilde mode that is the physical (material) and mental aspect of cognition (memory and attention) related feedback signals in a neural-network, which refers to the cognitive nearest past approaching towards present; and (2) the tilde mode that is the material and mental aspect of the feed-forward signals due to external environmental input and internal endogenous input, which pertains to the nearest future approaching towards present and is a entropy-reversed representation of non-tilde mode. Furthermore, one could argue that there are at least five sub-pathways in the stimulus-dependent feed-forward pathway and cognitive feedback pathway for information transfer in the brain dynamics: (i) classical axonal-dendritic neural sub-pathway including electromagnetic information field sub-pathway; (ii) quantum dendritic-dendritic microtubule (MT) (dendritic webs) sub-pathway; (iii) Ca++-related astroglial-neural sub-pathway; (iv) (a) the sub-pathway related to extrasynaptic signal transmission between fine distal dendrites of cortical neurons for the local subtle modulation due to voltages created by intradendritic dual-aspect charged surface effects within the Debye layer around endogenous structures such as microtubules (MT) and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in dendrites, and (b) the sub-pathway related to extracellular volume transmission as fields of neural activity for the global modulation in axonal-dendritic neural sub-pathway; and (v) the sub-pathway related to information transmission via soliton propagation. We propose that: (i) the quantum conjugate matching between experiences in the mental aspect of the tilde mode and that of the non-tilde mode is related more to the mental aspect of the quantum microtubule-dendritic-web and less to that of the non-quantum sub-pathways; and (ii) the classical matching between experiences in the mental aspect of the tilde mode and that of the non-tilde mode is related to the mental aspect of the non-quantum sub-pathways (such as classical axonal-dendritic neural sub-pathway). In both cases, a specific SE is selected when the tilde mode interacts with the non-tilde mode to match for a specific SE, and when the necessary ingredients of SEs (such as the formation of neural networks, wakefulness, re-entry, attention, working memory, and so on) are satisfied. When the conjugate match is made between the two modes, the world-presence (Now) is disclosed. The material aspects in the tilde mode and that in the non-tilde mode are matched to link structure with function, whereas the mental aspects in the tilde mode and that in the non-tilde mode are matched to link experience with structure and function.
445	dynamical	2009	Streeck, J; Jordan, JS	Communication as a Dynamical Self-Sustaining System: The Importance of Time-Scales and Nested Context	COMMUNICATION THEORY	This article examines the utility of modeling communication as dynamic nesting of self-sustaining embodied contexts functioning at multiple time-scales simultaneously. We begin with van Orden and Holden's (2002) assertion that an individual's cognitive work emerges in generative, dynamic fashion out of the ongoing synergistic interaction between processes taking place at multiple time-scales. We apply this notion to communication via Lemke's (2000) application of heterochronic interactions to the social realm, and utilize Jordan and Ghin's (2006) conceptualization of the "body" as a self-sustaining embodiment of contexts playing themselves out at different, nested time-scales. We examine multiple interpersonal interactions involving the owner of an autoshop, and focus on how embodiments such as foot movements constrain and contextualize multiple time-scales of context simultaneously.
446	dynamical	2009	Ward, R; Ward, R	Representation in dynamical agents	NEURAL NETWORKS	This paper extends experiments by Beer [Beer, R. D. (1996). Toward the evolution of dynamical neural networks for minimally cognitive behavior. In P. Maes, M. Mataric, J. Meyer, J. Pollack, & S. Wilson (Eds.), Front animals to animals 4: Proceedings of the fourth international conference on simulation of adaptive behavior (pp. 421-429). MIT Press: Beer, R. D. (2003). The dynamics of active categorical perception in an evolved model agent (with commentary and response). Adaptive Behavior, 11 (4), 209-243] with an evolved, dynamical agent to further explore the question of representation in cognitive systems. Beer's environmentally-situated visual agent was controlled by a continuous-time recurrent neural network, and evolved to perform a categorical perception task, discriminating circles from diamonds. Despite the agent's high levels of discrimination performance, Beer found no evidence of internal representation in the best-evolved agent's nervous system. Here we examine the generality of this result. We evolved an agent for shape discrimination, and performed extensive behavioral analyses to test for representation. In this case we find that agents developed to discriminate equal-width shapes exhibit what Clark [Clark, A. (1997). The dynamical challenge. Cognitive Science, 21 (4), 461-481] calls "weak-substantive representation". The agent had internal configurations that (1) were understandably related to the object in the environment, and (2) were functionally used in a task relevant way when the target was not visible to the agent. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
447	dynamical	2008	Kozma, R	Intentional systems: Review of neurodynamics, modeling, and robotics implementation	PHYSICS OF LIFE REVIEWS	We present an intentional neurodynamic theory for higher cognition and intelligence. This theory provides a unifying framework for integrating symbolic and subsymbolic methods as complementary aspects of human intelligence. Top-down symbolic approaches benefit from the vast experience with logical reasoning and with high-level knowledge processing in humans. Connectionist methods use bottom-up approach to generate intelligent behavior by mimicking subsymbolic aspects of the operation of brains and nervous systems. Neurophysiological correlates of intentionality and cognition include sequences of oscillatory patterns of mesoscopic neural activity. Oscillatory patterns are viewed as intermittent representations of generalized symbol systems, with which brains compute. These dynamical symbols are not rigid but flexible. They disappear soon after they emerged through spatio-temporal phase transitions. Intentional neurodynamics provides a solution to the notoriously difficult symbol grounding problem. Some examples of implementations of the corresponding dynamic principles are described in this review. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
448	dynamical	2008	Barandiaran, X; Ruiz-Mirazo, K	Modelling autonomy: Simulating the essence of life and cognition	BIOSYSTEMS	0
449	dynamical	1996	Tschacher, W; Rossler, OE	The self: A processual gestalt	CHAOS SOLITONS & FRACTALS	The psychological self is often treated as a mental structure which enables a person to act individually and consciously. In our view, the self can only be kept non-paradoxical if it is seen as a process with homeostatic attributes. We therefore discuss a self concept derived from the theory of complex dynamical systems. The dynamical perspective makes us lay an emphasis on the recursion implicated by the operator 'self' marking the application of cognition to cognition. We argue that from this recursive dynamics the self arises as a processual gestalt via self-organization. We can then link our concept of self to psychological observations which show that the self is maintained by a rhythmical series of calibrating events (self-reflections and social interactions). Implications for psychopathology (schizophrenia theory) and interpersonal relationships (transference, love) are outlined. Copyright (C) 1996 Elsevier Science Ltd.
450	dynamical	2014	Limongi, R; Tomio, A; Ibanez, A	Dynamical predictions of insular hubs for social cognition and their application to stroke	FRONTIERS IN BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	The insular cortex (IC) is considered a rich hub for context-sensitive emotions/social cognition. Patients with focal IC stroke provide unique opportunities to study socio-emotional processes. Nevertheless, Couto et al. (20130) have recently reported controversial results regarding IC involvement in emotion and social cognition. Similarly, patients with similar lesions show high functional variability, ranging from almost totally preserved to strongly impaired behavior. Critical evidence suggests that the variability of these patients in the above domains can be explained by enhanced neuroplasticity, compensatory processes, and functional remapping after stroke. Therefore, socio-emotional processes would depend on long-distance connections between the IC and frontotemporal regions. We propose that predictive coding and effective connectivity represent a novel approach to explore functional connectivity and assess compensatory, contralateral, and subsidiary network differences among focal stroke patients. This approach would help explain why socio-emotional performance is so variable within this population.
451	dynamical	2014	Alroe, HF; Noe, E	Second-Order Science of Interdisciplinary Research A Polyocular Framework for Wicked Problems	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	Context: The problems that are most in need of interdisciplinary collaboration are "wicked problems," such as food crises, climate change mitigation, and sustainable development, with many relevant aspects, disagreement on what the problem is, and contradicting solutions. Such complex problems both require and challenge interdisciplinarity. Problem: The conventional methods of interdisciplinary research fall short in the case of wicked problems because they remain first-order science. Our aim is to present workable methods and research designs for doing second-order science in domains where there are many different scientific knowledges on any complex problem. Method: We synthesize and elaborate a framework for second-order science in interdisciplinary research based on a number of earlier publications, experiences from large interdisciplinary research projects, and a perspectivist theory of science. Results: The second-order polyocular framework for interdisciplinary research is characterized by five principles. Second-order science of interdisciplinary research must: 1. draw on the observations of first-order perspectives, 2. address a shared dynamical object, 3. establish a shared problem, 4. rely on first-order perspectives to see themselves as perspectives, and 5. be based on other rules than first-order research. Implications: The perspectivist insights of second-order science provide a new way of understanding interdisciplinary research that leads to new polyocular methods and research designs. It also points to more reflexive ways of dealing with scientific expertise in democratic processes. The main challenge is that this is a paradigmatic shift, which demands that the involved disciplines, at least to some degree, subscribe to a perspectivist view. Constructivist content: Our perspectivist approach to science is based on the second-order cybernetics and systems theories of von Foerster, Maruyama, Maturana & Varela, and Luhmann, coupled with embodied theories of cognition and semiotics as a general theory of meaning from von Uekll and Peirce.
452	dynamical	2014	Wong, AE; Vallacher, RR; Nowak, A	Fractal Dynamics in Self-Evaluation Reveal Self-Concept Clarity	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS PSYCHOLOGY AND LIFE SCIENCES	The structural account of self-esteem and self-evaluation maintains that they are distinct constructs. Trait self-esteem is stable and is expressed over macro timescales, whereas state self-evaluation is unstable and experienced on micro timescales. We compared predictions based on the structural account with those derived from a dynamical systems perspective on the self, which maintains that self-esteem and self-evaluation are hierarchically related and share basic dynamic properties. Participants recorded a 3-minute narrative about themselves, then used the mouse paradigm (Vallacher, Nowak, Froehlich, & Rockloff, 2002) to track the momentary self-evaluation in their narrative. Multiple methods converged to reveal fractal patterns in the resultant temporal patterns, indicative of nested timescales that link micro and macro self-evaluation and thus supportive of the dynamical account. The fractal dynamics were associated with participants' self-concept clarity, suggesting that the hierarchical relation between macro self-evaluation (self-esteem) and momentary self-evaluation is predicted by the coherence of self-concept organization.
453	dynamical	2014	Di Paolo, EA; Barandiaran, XE; Beaton, M; Buhrmann, T	Learning to perceive in the sensor motor approach: Piaget's theory of equilibration interpreted dynamically	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Learning to perceive is faced with a classical paradox: if understanding is required for perception, how can we learn to perceive something new, something we do not yet understand? According to the sensorimotor approach, perception involves mastery of regular sensorimotor co-variations that depend on the agent and the environment, also known as the "laws" of sensorimotor contingencies (SMCs). In this sense, perception involves enacting relevant sensorimotor skills in each situation. It is important for this proposal that such skills can be learned and refined with experience and yet up to this date, the sensorimotor approach has had no explicit theory of perceptual learning. The situation is made more complex if we acknowledge the open-ended nature of human learning. In this paper we propose Piaget's theory of equilibration as a potential candidate to fulfill this role. This theory highlights the importance of intrinsic sensorimotor norms, in terms of the closure of sensorimotor schemes. It also explains how the equilibration of a sensorimotor organization faced with novelty or breakdowns proceeds by re-shaping pre-existing structures in coupling with dynamical regularities of the world. This way learning to perceive is guided by the equilibration of emerging forms of skillful coping with the world. We demonstrate the compatibility between Piaget's theory and the sensorimotor approach by providing a dynamical formalization of equilibration to give an explicit micro-genetic account of sensorimotor learning and, by extension, of how we learn to perceive. This allows us to draw important lessons in the form of general principles for open-ended sensorimotor learning, including the need for an intrinsic normative evaluation by the agent itself. We also explore implications of our micro-genetic account at the personal level.
454	dynamical	2014	Grezes, J; Dezecache, G	How do shared-representations and emotional processes cooperate in response to social threat signals?	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Research in social cognition has mainly focused on the detection and comprehension of others' mental and emotional states. Doing so, past studies have adopted a "contemplative" view of the role of the observer engaged in a social interaction. However, the adaptive problem posed by the social environment is first and foremost that of coordination, which demands more of social cognition beyond mere detection and comprehension of others' hidden states. Offering a theoretical framework that takes into account the dynamical aspect of social interaction - notably by accounting for constant interplay between emotional appraisal and motor processes in socially engaged human brain - thus constitutes an important challenge for the field of social cognition. Here, we propose that our social environment can be seen as presenting opportunities for actions regarding others. Within such a framework, non-verbal social signals such as emotional displays are considered to have evolved to influence the observer in consistent ways. Consequently, social signals can modulate motor responses in observers. In line with this theoretical framework we provide evidence that emotional and motor processes are actually tightly linked during the perception of threat signals. This is ultimately reflected in the human brain by constant interplay between limbic and motor areas. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
455	dynamical	2012	Altamura, M; Elvevag, B; Campi, G; De Salvia, M; Marasco, D; Ricci, A; Bellomo, A	Toward scale-free like behavior under increasing cognitive load	COMPLEXITY	To understand how cognition and response selection processes might emerge from dynamic brain systems, we analyzed reaction times during the performance of both a working memory task and a choice reaction time task at different levels of cognitive load. Our findings suggest a continuous transitiontuned by loadfrom random behavior toward scale-free like behavior as an expanding connectivity process in a network poised near a critical point. (c) 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Complexity, 2012
456	dynamical	2012	Spencer, JP; Barich, K; Goldberg, J; Perone, S	Behavioral dynamics and neural grounding of a dynamic field theory of multi-object tracking	JOURNAL OF INTEGRATIVE NEUROSCIENCE	The ability to dynamically track moving objects in the environment is crucial for efficient interaction with the local surrounds. Here, we examined this ability in the context of the multi-object tracking (MOT) task. Several theories have been proposed to explain how people track moving objects; however, only one of these previous theories is implemented in a real-time process model, and there has been no direct contact between theories of object tracking and the growing neural literature using ERPs and fMRI. Here, we present a neural process model of object tracking that builds from a Dynamic Field Theory of spatial cognition. Simulations reveal that our dynamic field model captures recent behavioral data examining the impact of speed and tracking duration on MOT performance. Moreover, we show that the same model with the same trajectories and parameters can shed light on recent ERP results probing how people distribute attentional resources to targets vs. distractors. We conclude by comparing this new theory of object tracking to other recent accounts, and discuss how the neural grounding of the theory might be effectively explored in future work.
457	dynamical	2012	Mirolli, M	Representations in Dynamical Embodied Agents: Re-Analyzing a Minimally Cognitive Model Agent	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Understanding the role of representations in cognitive science is a fundamental problem facing the emerging framework of embodied, situated, dynamical cognition. To make progress, I follow the approach proposed by an influential representational skeptic, Randall Beer: building artificial agents capable of minimally cognitive behaviors and assessing whether their internal states can be considered to involve representations. Hence, I operationalize the concept of representing as standing in, and I look for representations in embodied agents involved in simple categorization tasks. In a first experiment, no representation can be found, but the relevance of the task is undermined by the fact that agents with no internal states can reach high performance. A simple modification makes the task more representationally hungry, and in this case, agents internal states are found to qualify as representations. I conclude by discussing the benefits of reconciling the embodied-dynamical approach with the notion of representation.
458	dynamical	2012	Atmanspacher, H	Identifying mental states from neural states under mental constraints	INTERFACE FOCUS	This article emphasizes how the recently proposed interlevel relation of contextual emergence for scientific descriptions combines 'bottom-up' and 'top-down' kinds of influence. As emergent behaviour arises from features pertaining to lower level descriptions, there is a clear bottom-up component. But, in general, this is not sufficient to formulate interlevel relations stringently. Higher level contextual constraints are needed to equip the lower level description with those details appropriate for the desired higher level description to emerge. These contextual constraints yield some kind of 'downward confinement', a term that avoids the sometimes misleading notion of 'downward causation'. This will be illustrated for the example of relations between (lower level) neural states and (higher level) mental states.
459	dynamical	2012	Yoshimi, J	Active internalism and open dynamical systems	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	The question whether cognition is subserved by internal processes in the brain (internalism) or extends in to the world (active externalism) has been vigorously debated in recent years. I show how internalist and externalist ideas can be pursued in a common framework, using (1) open dynamical systems, which allow for separate analysis of an agent's intrinsic and embodied dynamics, and (2) supervenience functions, which can be used to study how low-evel dynamical systems give rise to higher-level dynamical structures.
460	dynamical	2010	Hope, T; Stoianov, I; Zorzi, M	Through Neural Stimulation to Behavior Manipulation: A Novel Method for Analyzing Dynamical Cognitive Models	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The dynamical systems' approach to cognition (Dynamicism) promises computational models that effectively embed cognitive processing within its more natural behavioral context. Dynamical cognitive models also pose difficult, analytical challenges, which motivate the development of new analytical methodology. We start by illustrating the challenge by applying two conventional analytical methods to a well-known Dynamicist model of categorical perception. We then introduce our own analysis, which works by analogy with neural stimulation methods, and which yields some novel insights into the way the model works. We then extend and apply the method to a second Dynamicist model, which captures the key psychophysical trends that emerge when humans and animals compare two numbers. The results of the analysis-which reveals units with tuning functions that are monotonically related to the magnitudes of the numbers that the agents must compare-offer a clear contribution to the contentious debate concerning the way number information is encoded in the brain.
461	dynamical	2009	Lipinski, J; Sandamirskaya, Y; Schoner, G	Swing it to the left, swing it to the right: enacting flexible spatial language using a neurodynamic framework	COGNITIVE NEURODYNAMICS	Research is continually expanding the empirical and theoretical picture of embodiment and dynamics in language. To date, however, a formalized neural dynamic framework for embodied linguistic processes has yet to emerge. To advance embodied theories of language, the present work develops a formalized neural dynamic framework of spatial language that explicitly integrates linguistic processes and dynamic sensory-motor systems. We then implement and test our spatial language architecture on a robotic platform continuously linked to real-time camera input. In a suite of tasks using everyday objects we demonstrate the framework's capacity for both contextually-dependent behavioral flexibility and the seamless integration of spatial, non-spatial, and symbolic representations. To our knowledge this is the first unified, neurally-grounded architecture integrating these processes and behaviors.
462	dynamical	2009	Maniadakis, M; Tani, J	Acquiring Rules for Rules: Neuro-Dynamical Systems Account for Meta-Cognition	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Both animals and humans use meta-rules in their daily life, in order to adapt their behavioral strategies to changing environmental situations. Typically, the term meta-rule encompasses those rules that are applied to rules themselves. In cognitive science, conventional approaches for designing meta-rules follow human hardwired architectures. In contrast to previous approaches, this study employs evolutionary processes to explore neuronal mechanisms accounting for meta-level rule switching. In particular, we performed a series of experiments with a simulated robot that has to learn to switch between different behavioral rules in order to accomplish given tasks. Continuous time recurrent neural networks (CTRNN) controllers with either a fully connected or a bottleneck architecture were examined. The results showed that different rules are represented by separate self-organized attractors, while rule switching is enabled by the transitions among attractors. Furthermore, the results showed that neural network division into a lower sensorimotor level and a higher cognitive level enhances the performance of the robot in the given tasks. Additionally, meta-cognitive rule processing is significantly supported by the embodiment of the controller and the lower level sensorimotor properties of environmental interaction.
463	dynamical	2008	Petersson, KM	On Cognition, Structured Sequence Processing, and Adaptive Dynamical Systems	INTERNATIONAL ELECTRONIC CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER SCIENCE	Cognitive neuroscience approaches the brain as a cognitive system: a system that functionally is conceptualized in terms of information processing. We outline some aspects of this concept and consider a physical system to be an information processing device when a subclass of its physical states can be viewed as representational/cognitive and transitions between these can be conceptualized as a process operating on these states by implementing operations on the corresponding representational structures. We identify a generic and fundamental problem in cognition: sequentially organized structured processing. Structured sequence processing provides the brain, in an essential sense, with its processing logic. In an approach addressing this problem, we illustrate how to integrate levels of analysis within a framework of adaptive dynamical systems. We note that the dynamical system framework lends itself to a description of asynchronous event-driven devices, which is likely to be important in cognition because the brain appears to be an asynchronous processing system. We use the human language faculty and natural language processing as a concrete example through out.
464	dynamical	2007	Ritter, H; Haschke, R; Steil, JJ	A Dual Interaction Perspective for Robot Cognition: Grasping as a "Rosetta Stone"	PERSPECTIVES OF NEURAL-SYMBOLIC INTEGRATION	One of the major milestones to higher cognition may be the ability to shape movements that involve very complex interactions with the environment. Based on this hypothesis we argue that the study and technical replication of manual intelligence may serve as a "Rosetta Stone" for designing cognitive robot architectures. The development of such architectures will strongly benefit if improvements to their interaction capabilities in the task domain become paired with efficient modes of interaction in the domain of configuring and restructuring such systems. We find that this "dual interaction perspective" is closely connected with the challenge of integrating holistic and symbolic aspects of representations. In the case of grasping, this requires a very tight marriage between continuous control and more discrete, symbol-like representations of contact and object states. As a concrete implementation, we propose a two layered architecture, where the lower, subsymbolic layer offers a repository of elementary dynamical processes implemented as specialised controllers for sensori-motor primitives. These controllers are represented and coordinated in the upper, symbolic layer, which employs a hierarchy of state machines. Their states represent semantically related classes of dynamic sensori-motor interaction patterns. We report on the application of the proposed architecture to a robot system comprising a 7-DOF redundant arm and a five-fingered, 20-DOF anthropomorphous manipulator. Applying the dual interaction approach, we have endowed the robot with a variety of grasping behaviours, ranging from simple grasping reflexes over visually instructed "imitation grasping" to grasping actions initiated in response to spoken commands. We conclude with a brief sketch of cognitive abilities that we now feel within close reach for the described architecture.
465	dynamical	2004	Kinsner, W	Is entropy suitable to characterize data and signals for cognitive informatics?	PROCEEDINGS OF THE THIRD IEEE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE INFORMATICS	This paper provides a review of Shannon and other entropy measures in evaluating the quality of materials used in perception, cognition and learning processes. Energy-based metrics are not suitable for cognition, as energy itself does not carry information. Instead, morphological (structural and contextual) as well as entropy-based metrics should be considered in cognitive informatics. The data and signal transformation processes are defined and discussed in the perceptual framework, followed by various classes of information and entropies suitable for characterization of data, signals and distortion. Other entropies are also described, including the Renyi generalized entropy spectrum, Kolmogorov complexity measure, Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy and Prigogine entropy for evolutionary dynamical systems. Although such entropy-based measures are suitable for many signals, they are not sufficient for scale-invariant (fractal and multifractal) signals without complementary measures.
466	dynamical	1997	vanGeert, P	Nonlinear dynamics and the explanation of mental and behavioral development	JOURNAL OF MIND AND BEHAVIOR	This article argues that the process of development as such explains a great deal of the forms and properties of individual developmental trajectories, without the necessity of having to rely on either external or internal factors or causes. Both the problem of developmental change (dissimilarity) and invariance (similarity) can be explained by employing a dynamic systems conceptualization of development. It is shown that dynamic systems models on the one hand and those of the genuine developmental models in psychology on the other, share a set of important general properties that are able to explain both the universal and the idiosyncratic aspects of developmental processes. The concept of mental and behavioral ecology, which may serve as a starting point for specific theories of development of cognition, social behavior, personality and so forth, is discussed. It is concluded that both long-term and short-term developmental patterns will be shown to follow similar abstract dynamical principles.
467	dynamical	2015	Muhlhoff, R	Affective resonance and social interaction	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Interactive social cognition theory and approaches of developmental psychology widely agree that central aspects of emotional and social experience arise in the unfolding of processes of embodied social interaction. Bi-directional dynamical couplings of bodily displays such as facial expressions, gestures, and vocalizations have repeatedly been described in terms of coordination, synchrony, mimesis, or attunement. In this paper, I propose conceptualizing such dynamics rather as processes of affective resonance. Starting from the immediate phenomenal experience of being immersed in interaction, I develop the philosophical notion of affective resonance to refer to a dynamic entanglement of moving and being-moved in relation. The concept of affective resonance makes visible that the interaction dynamic itself creates an affective experience rather than transmitting internal feeling states between pre-existent individuals. This leads to a philosophical framework in which relationality and ontogeny are primary over separate individuals, and in which the naturalistic distinction of a fundamental physical level versus an emerging level of social processes has to be given up.
468	dynamical	2015	Abrahamson, D; Trninic, D	Bringing forth mathematical concepts: signifying sensorimotor enactment in fields of promoted action	ZDM-THE INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL ON MATHEMATICS EDUCATION	Inspired by Enactivist philosophy yet in dialog with it, we ask what theory of embodied cognition might best serve in articulating implications of Enactivism for mathematics education. We offer a blend of Dynamical Systems Theory and Sociocultural Theory as an analytic lens on micro-processes of action-to-concept evolution. We also illustrate the methodological utility of design-research as an approach to such theory development. Building on constructs from ecological psychology, cultural anthropology, studies of motor-skill acquisition, and somatic awareness practices, we develop the notion of an "instrumented field of promoted action". Children operating in this field first develop environmentally coupled motor-action coordinations. Next, we introduce into the field new artifacts. The children adopt the artifacts as frames of action and reference, yet in so doing they shift into disciplinary semiotic systems. We exemplify our thesis with two selected excerpts from our videography of Grade 4-6 volunteers participating in task-based clinical interviews centered on the Mathematical Imagery Trainer for Proportion. In particular, we present and analyze cases of either smooth or abrupt transformation in learners' operatory schemes. We situate our design framework vis-a-vis seminal contributions to mathematics education research.
469	dynamical	2015	Parnamets, P; Johansson, P; Hall, L; Balkenius, C; Spivey, MJ; Richardson, DC	Biasing moral decisions by exploiting the dynamics of eye gaze	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Eye gaze is a window onto cognitive processing in tasks such as spatial memory, linguistic processing, and decision making. We present evidence that information derived from eye gaze can be used to change the course of individuals' decisions, even when they are reasoning about high-level, moral issues. Previous studies have shown that when an experimenter actively controls what an individual sees the experimenter can affect simple decisions with alternatives of almost equal valence. Here we show that if an experimenter passively knows when individuals move their eyes the experimenter can change complex moral decisions. This causal effect is achieved by simply adjusting the timing of the decisions. We monitored participants' eye movements during a two-alternative forced-choice task with moral questions. One option was randomly predetermined as a target. At the moment participants had fixated the target option for a set amount of time we terminated their deliberation and prompted them to choose between the two alternatives. Although participants were unaware of this gaze-contingent manipulation, their choices were systematically biased toward the target option. We conclude that even abstract moral cognition is partly constituted by interactions with the immediate environment and is likely supported by gaze-dependent decision processes. By tracking the interplay between individuals, their sensorimotor systems, and the environment, we can influence the outcome of a decision without directly manipulating the content of the information available to them.
470	dynamical	2015	Kirchhoff, MD	Extended Cognition & the Causal-Constitutive Fallacy: In Search for a Diachronic and Dynamical Conception of Constitution	PHILOSOPHY AND PHENOMENOLOGICAL RESEARCH	Philosophical accounts of the constitution relation have been explicated in terms of synchronic relations between higher- and lower-level entities. Such accounts, I argue, are temporally austere or impoverished, and are consequently unable to make sense of the diachronic and dynamic character of constitution in dynamical systems generally and dynamically extended cognitive processes in particular. In this paper, my target domain is extended cognition based on insights from nonlinear dynamics. Contrariwise to the mainstream literature in both analytical metaphysics and extended cognition, I develop a nonstandard, alternative conception of constitution, which I call diachronic process constitution. It will be argued that only a diachronic and dynamical conception of constitution is consistent with the nature of constitution in distributed cognitive processes.
471	dynamical	2015	Bielczyk, NZ; Buitelaar, JK; Glennon, JC; Tiesinga, PHE	Circuit to construct mapping: a mathematical tool for assisting the diagnosis and treatment in major depressive disorder	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHIATRY	Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a serious condition with a lifetime prevalence exceeding 16% worldwide. MDD is a heterogeneous disorder that involves multiple behavioral symptoms on the one hand and multiple neuronal circuits on the other hand. In this review, we integrate the literature on cognitive and physiological biomarkers of MDD with the insights derived from mathematical models of brain networks, especially models that can be used for fMRI datasets. We refer to the recent NIH research domain criteria initiative, in which a concept of "constructs" as functional units of mental disorders is introduced. Constructs are biomarkers present at multiple levels of brain functioning cognition, genetics, brain anatomy, and neurophysiology. In this review, we propose a new approach which we called circuit to construct mapping (CCM), which aims to characterize causal relations between the underlying network dynamics (as the cause) and the constructs referring to the clinical symptoms of MDD (as the effect). CCM involves extracting diagnostic categories from behavioral data, linking circuits that are causal to these categories with use of clinical neuroimaging data, and modeling the dynamics of the emerging circuits with attractor dynamics in order to provide new, neuroimaging-related biomarkers for MDD. The CCM approach optimizes the clinical diagnosis and patient stratification. It also addresses the recent demand for linking circuits to behavior, and provides a new insight into clinical treatment by investigating the dynamics of neuronal circuits underneath cognitive dimensions of MDD. CCM can serve as a new regime toward personalized medicine, assisting the diagnosis and treatment of MDD.
472	dynamical	2014	Beer, RD	Dynamical systems and embedded cognition	CAMBRIDGE HANDBOOK OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	0
473	dynamical	2012	Noack, RA	Solving the "human problem": The frontal feedback model	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	This paper argues that humans possess unique cognitive abilities due to the presence of a functional system that exists in the human brain that is absent in the non-human brain. This system, the frontal feedback system, was born in the hominin brain when the great phylogenetic expansion of the prefrontal cortex relative to posterior sensory regions surpassed a critical threshold. Surpassing that threshold effectively reversed the preferred direction of information flow in the highest association regions of the neocortex, producing the frontal feedback system. This reversal was from the caudo-rostral bias characteristic of non-human, or pre-human, brain dynamics to a rostro-caudal bias characteristic of modern human brain dynamics. The frontal feedback system works through frontal motor routines, or action schemes, manipulating the release and reconstruction of stored sensory memories in posterior sensory areas. As an obligatory feature of frontal feedback, a central character, or self, emerges within this cortical network that manifests itself as agent in these reconstructions as well as in the experience of sensory perceptions. Dynamical-systems modeling of cortical interactions is combined in the paper with recent neuroimaging studies of "resting-state" brain activity to bridge the gap between microscopic and macroscopic levels of cortical behavior. This synthesis is used to support the proposal of an information flow reversal occurring in the hominin brain and also to explain how such a reversal generates the wide variety of cognitive and experiential phenomena that many consider to be uniquely human. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
474	dynamical	2008	Froese, T; Di Paolo, EA	Stability of coordination requires mutuality of interaction in a model of embodied agents	FROM ANIMALS TO ANIMATS 10, PROCEEDINGS	We used an evolutionary robotics methodology to generate pairs of simulated agents capable of reliably establishing and maintaining a coordination pattern under noisy conditions. Unlike previous related work, agents were only evolved for this ability and not for their capacity to discriminate social contingency (i.e., a live responsive partner) from non-contingent engagements (i.e., a recording). However, when they were made to interact with a recording of their partner made during a successful previous interaction, the coordination pattern could not be established. An analysis of the system's underlying dynamics revealed (i) that stability of the coordination pattern requires ongoing mutuality of interaction, and (ii) that the interaction process is not only constituted by, but also constitutive of, individual behavior. We suggest that this stability of coordination is a general property of a certain class of interactively coupled dynamical systems, and conclude that psychological explanations of an individual's sensitivity to social contingency need to take into account the role of the interaction process.
475	dynamical	2005	Van Leeuwen, M	Questions for the dynamicist: The use of dynamical systems theory in the philosophy of cognition	MINDS AND MACHINES	The concepts and powerful mathematical tools of Dynamical Systems Theory (DST) yield illuminating methods of studying cognitive processes, and are even claimed by some to enable us to bridge the notorious explanatory gap separating mind and matter. This article includes an analysis of some of the conceptual and empirical progress Dynamical Systems Theory is claimed to accomodate. While sympathetic to the dynamicist program in principle, this article will attempt to formulate a series of problems the proponents of the approach in question will need to face if they wish to prolong their optimism. The main points to be addressed involve the reductive tendencies inherent in Dynamical Systems Theory, its somewhat muddled position relative to connectionism, the metaphorical nature DST-C exhibits which hinders its explanatory potential, and DST-C's problematic account of causality. Brief discussions of the mathematical and philosophical backgrounds of DST, seminal experimental work and possible adaptations of the theory or alternative suggestions (dynamicist connectionism, neurophenomenology, R&D theory) are included.
476	dynamical	2000	Davids, K; Button, C	The cognition-dynamics interface and performance in sport	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	This commentary focuses on the relationship between intentions and actions,ns within theoretical models of movement behaviour considered in relation to sport performance. It is argued that an integrated approach is needed which seeks to explain intentionality as one of many important constraints on movement systems, An interesting question is whether complementarity is needed in models of the intentions-actions relations. it is recognised that an overarching dynamical systems approach is working towards the goal of integrating the behaviour of cognitive and movement systems. The emphasis on constraints within a unified, non-complementary framework, as well as a potential strategy for sport pedagogy.
477	dynamical	1998	Flach, JM	Cognitive systems engineering: putting things in context	ERGONOMICS	This brief commentary on the target paper by Dowell and Long presents a more optimistic view of the state of cognitive systems engineering. Ontological foundations associated with circular causality and a shift in values toward greater ecological validity distinguish cognitive systems engineering from classical cognition and human factors. Important exemplars of cognitive systems engineering are identified. Rich narrative accounts (stories) of natural work domains are presented as a critical vehicle for generalizations and a precursor to more formal symbolic systems such as those that are emerging from the field of dynamical systems.
478	dynamical	1992	ADAMS, FW; NGUYEN, HT; RAGHAVAN, R; SLAWNY, J	A PARALLEL NETWORK FOR VISUAL COGNITION	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NETWORKS	This paper describes a parallel dynamical system designed to integrate model-based and data-driven approaches to image recognition in a neural network, and studies one component of the system in detail. That component is the translation-invariant network of probabilistic cellular automata (PCA's), which combines feature-detector outputs and collectively performs enhancement and recognition functions. Recognition is a novel application of the PCA. Given a model of the target object, conditions on the PCA weights are obtained which must be satisfied for object enhancement and noise rejection to occur, and "engineered" weights are constructed. For further refinement of the weights, a new training algorithm derived from optimal control theory is proposed. System operation is illustrated with examples derived from visual, infrared, and laser-radar imagery.
479	dynamical	2016	Abrahamson, D; Sanchez-Garcia, R	Learning Is Moving in New Ways: The Ecological Dynamics of Mathematics Education	JOURNAL OF THE LEARNING SCIENCES	Whereas emerging technologies, such as touchscreen tablets, are bringing sensorimotor interaction back into mathematics learning activities, existing educational theory is not geared to inform or analyze passages from action to concept. We present case studies of tutor-student behaviors in an embodied-interaction learning environment, the Mathematical Imagery Trainer. Drawing on ecological dynamics-a blend of dynamical-systems theory and ecological psychology-we explain and demonstrate that: (a) students develop sensorimotor schemes as solutions to interaction problems; (b) each scheme is oriented on an attentional anchor-a real or imagined object, area, or other aspect or behavior of the perceptual manifold that emerges to facilitate motor-action coordination; and (c) when symbolic artifacts are introduced into the arena, they may both mediate new affordances for students' motor-action control and shift their discourse into explicit mathematical re-visualization of the environment. Symbolic artifacts are ontological hybrids evolving from things with which you act to things with which you think. Students engaged in embodied-interaction learning activities are first attracted to symbolic artifacts as prehensible environmental features optimizing their grip on the world, yet in the course of enacting the improved control routines, the artifacts become frames of reference for establishing and articulating quantitative systems known as mathematical reasoning.
480	dynamical	2016	Kida, T; Tanaka, E; Kakigi, R	Multi-Dimensional Dynamics of Human Electromagnetic Brain Activity	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG) are invaluable neuroscientific tools for unveiling human neural dynamics in three dimensions (space, time, and frequency), which are associated with a wide variety of perceptions, cognition, and actions. MEG/EEG also provides different categories of neuronal indices including activity magnitude, connectivity, and network properties along the three dimensions. In the last 20 years, interest has increased in inter-regional connectivity and complex network properties assessed by various sophisticated scientific analyses. We herein review the definition, computation, short history, and pros and cons of connectivity and complex network (graph-theory) analyses applied to MEG/EEG signals. We briefly describe recent developments in source reconstruction algorithms essential for source-space connectivity and network analyses. Furthermore, we discuss a relatively novel approach used in MEG/EEG studies to examine the complex dynamics represented by human brain activity. The correct and effective use of these neuronal metrics provides a new insight into the multi dimensional dynamics of the neural representations of various functions in the complex human brain.
481	dynamical	2015	Aerts, D; de Bianchi, MS	The unreasonable success of quantum probability I: Quantum measurements as uniform fluctuations	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	We introduce a model which allows to represent the probabilities associated with an arbitrary measurement situation as it appears in different domains of science - from cognitive science to physics - and use it to explain the emergence of quantum probabilities (the Born rule) as uniform fluctuations on this measurement situation. The model exploits the geometry of simplexes to represent the states both of the system and the measuring apparatus, in a way that the measurement probabilities can be derived as the Lebesgue measure of suitably defined convex subregions of the simplex under consideration. Although the model we propose, which we call the uniform tension-reduction (UTR) model, is an abstract construct, it admits physical realizations. In this article we consider a very simple and evocative one, using a material point particle which is acted upon by special elastic membranes, which by breaking and collapsing are able to "release the tension" and produce the different possible outcomes. This easy to visualize mechanical realization allows one to gain considerable insight into the possible hidden structure of a measurement process, be it from a measurement associated with a situation in cognitive science or in physics, or in any other domain. We also show that the UTR-model can be further generalized into a model describing conditions of lack of knowledge generated by non-uniform fluctuations, which we call the general tension-reduction (GTR) model. In this more general framework, which is more suitable to describe typical experiments in cognitive science, we define and motivate a notion of universal measurement, describing the most general possible condition of lack of knowledge in a measurement, emphasizing that the uniform fluctuations characterizing quantum measurements can also be understood as an average over all possible forms of non-uniform fluctuations which can be actualized in a measurement context. This means that the Born rule of quantum mechanics can be understood as a first order approximation of a more general non-uniform theory, thus explaining part of the great success of quantum probability in the description of different domains of reality. And more specifically, also providing a possible explanation for the success of quantum cognition, a research field in cognitive science employing the quantum formalism as a modeling tool. This is the first part of a two-part article. In the second part (Aerts and Sassoli de Bianchi, 2014a), the proof of the equivalence between universal measurements and uniform measurements, and its significance for quantum theory as a first order approximation, is given and further analyzed. (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.
482	dynamical	2014	Laroche, J; Berardi, AM; Brangier, E	Embodiment of intersubjective time: relational dynamics as attractors in the temporal coordination of interpersonal behaviors and experiences	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	This paper addresses the issue of "being together," and more specifically the issue of "being together in time." We provide with an integrative framework that is inspired by phenomenology, the enactive approach and dynamical systems theories. To do so, we first define embodiment as a living and lived phenomenon that emerges from agent-world coupling. We then show that embodiment is essentially dynamical and therefore we describe experiential, behavioral and brain dynamics. Both lived temporality and the temporality of the living appear to be complex, multiscale phenomena. Next we discuss embodied dynamics in the context of interpersonal interactions, and briefly review the empirical literature on between-persons temporal coordination. Overall, we propose that being together in time emerges from the relational dynamics of embodied interactions and their flexible co-regulation.
483	dynamical	2014	Abney, DH; Warlaumont, AS; Haussman, A; Ross, JM; Wallot, S	Using nonlinear methods to quantify changes in infant limb movements and vocalizations	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The pairing of dynamical systems theory and complexity science brings novel concepts and methods to the study of infant motor development. Accordingly, this longitudinal case study presents a new approach to characterizing the dynamics of infant limb and vocalization behaviors. A single infant's vocalizations and limb movements were recorded from 51-days to 305-days of age. On each recording day, accelerometers were placed on all four of the infant's limbs and an audio recorder was worn on the child's chest. Using nonlinear time series analysis methods, such as recurrence quantification analysis and Allan factor, we quantified changes in the stability and multiscale properties of the infant's behaviors across age as well as how these dynamics relate across modalities and effectors. We observed that particular changes in these dynamics preceded or coincided with the onset of various developmental milestones. For example, the largest changes in vocalization dynamics preceded the onset of canonical babbling. The results show that nonlinear analyses can help to understand the functional co-development of different aspects of infant behavior.
484	dynamical	2012	Maniadakis, M; Trahanias, P; Tani, J	Self-organizing high-order cognitive functions in artificial agents: Implications for possible prefrontal cortex mechanisms	NEURAL NETWORKS	In our daily life, we often adapt plans and behaviors according to dynamically changing world circumstances, selecting activities that make us feel more confident about the future. In this adaptation, the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is believed to have an important role, applying executive control on other cognitive processes to achieve context switching and confidence monitoring; however, many questions remain open regarding the nature of neural processes supporting executive control. The current work explores possible mechanisms of this high-order cognitive function, transferring executing control in the domain of artificial cognitive systems. In particular, we study the self-organization of artificial neural networks accomplishing a robotic rule-switching task analogous to the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. The obtained results show that behavioral rules may be encoded in neuro-dynamic attractors, with their geometric arrangements in phase space affecting the shaping of confidence. Analysis of the emergent dynamical structures suggests possible explanations of the interactions of high-level and low-level processes in the real brain. (c) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
485	dynamical	2011	Gangopadhyay, N	The extended mind: born to be wild? A lesson from action-understanding	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The extended mind hypothesis (Clark and Chalmers in Analysis 58(1):7-19, 1998; Clark 2008) is an influential hypothesis in philosophy of mind and cognitive science. I argue that the extended mind hypothesis is born to be wild. It has undeniable and irrepressible tendencies of flouting grounding assumptions of the traditional information-processing paradigm. I present case-studies from social cognition which not only support the extended mind proposal but also bring out its inherent wildness. In particular, I focus on cases of action-understanding and discuss the role of embodied intentionality in the extended mind project. I discuss two theories of action-understanding for exploring the support for the extended mind hypothesis in embodied intersubjective interaction, namely, simulation theory and a non-simulationist perceptual account. I argue that, if the extended mind adopts a simulation theory of action-understanding, it rejects representationalism. If it adopts a non-simulationist perceptual account of action-understanding, it rejects the classical sandwich view of the mind.
486	dynamical	2008	Sandamirskaya, Y; Schoner, G	Dynamic field theory and embodied communication	MODELLING COMMUNICATION WITH ROBOTS AND VIRTUAL HUMANS	Dynamical Field Theory is a neurally based approach to embodied and situated cognition, in which information is represented in continuous activation fields defined over metric spaces. The temporal evolution of activation patterns under the influence of inputs and neuronal interaction is described by a dynamical system, whose stable states, localized peaks of activation, are the units of representation. This approach has been successfully used to capture many elementary forms of cognition. Communication poses the new challenge of understanding how different modalities can be integrated in a continuously unfolding communicative process. In this chapter we give a brief introduction to Dynamical Field Theory in embodied cognition, and discuss extensions of its ideas to embodied communication. We sketch a highly simplified example of how sequence generation may occur in dynamical fields. We apply these concepts to a specific exemplary problem in embodied communication, turn taking, the temporal structure of which we capture in a simple model.
487	dynamical	2005	Schonbein, W	Cognition and the power of continuous dynamical systems	MINDS AND MACHINES	Traditional approaches to modeling cognitive systems are computational, based on utilizing the standard tools and concepts of the theory of computation. More recently, a number of philosophers have argued that cognition is too 'subtle' or 'complex' for these tools to handle. These philosophers propose an alternative based on dynamical systems theory. Proponents of this view characterize dynamical systems as (i) utilizing continuous rather than discrete mathematics, and, as a result, (ii) being computationally more powerful than traditional computational automata. Indeed, the logical possibility of such 'super-powerful' systems has been demonstrated in the form of analog artificial neural networks. In this paper I consider three arguments against the nomological possibility of these automata. While the first two arguments fail, the third succeeds. In particular, the presence of noise reduces the computational power of analog networks to that of traditional computational automata, and noise is a pervasive feature of information processing in biological systems. Consequently, as an empirical thesis, the proposed dynamical alternative is under-motivated: What is required is an account of how continuously valued systems could be realized in physical systems despite the ubiquity of noise.
488	dynamical	2001	Morariu, VV; Coza, A	Quarter power scaling in dynamics: Experimental evidence from cell biology and cognitive psychology	FLUCTUATION AND NOISE LETTERS	1/4 scaling of various biological variables in relation to body mass is universal in biology. Recent models provided evidence that such a scaling is a result of optimization of the processes in the system. We present evidence for 1/4 scaling in dynamical processes from two different types of experiments: fluctuation of the erythrocyte diameter and a task of random generation of series of numbers by human subjects. The time series obtained for different cells and human subjects respectively were analyzed by detrended fluctuation analysis. The exponents from different individuals presented a gaussian distribution centered at a scaling exponent equivalent to 1/4 for both types of experiments. While this proves the existence of 1/4 scaling in dynamics, it also shows that processes do not proceed equally efficient in various individuals. Consequently the deviation from the 1/4 scaling individuals can be used as a universal tool of investigation for the efficiency, or the optimization of various biological, psychological or other types of variables.
489	dynamical	1998	Farhat, NH	Biomorphic dynamical networks for cognition and control	JOURNAL OF INTELLIGENT & ROBOTIC SYSTEMS	Advances in understanding the neuronal code employed by cortical networks indicate that networks of parametrically coupled nonlinear iterative maps, each acting as a bifurcation processing element, furnish a potentially powerful tool for the modeling, simulation, and study of cortical networks and the host of higher-level processing and control functions they perform. Such functions are central to understanding and elucidating general principles on which the design of biomorphic learning and intelligent systems can be based. The networks concerned are dynamical in nature, in the sense that they "compute" not only with static (fixed-point) attractors but also with dynamic (periodic and chaotic) attractors. As such, they compute with diverse attractors, and utilize transitions (bifurcation) between attractors and transient chaos to carry out the functions they perform. An example of a dynamical network, a parametrically coupled net of logistic processing elements. is described and discussed together some of its behavioural attributes that are relevant to elucidating the possible role for coherence, bifurcation, and chaos in higher-level brain functions carried out by cortical networks.
490	dynamical	2016	De Jaegher, H; Di Paolo, E; Adolphs, R	What does the interactive brain hypothesis mean for social neuroscience? A dialogue	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	A recent framework inspired by phenomenological philosophy, dynamical systems theory, embodied cognition and robotics has proposed the interactive brain hypothesis (IBH). Whereas mainstream social neuroscience views social cognition as arising solely from events in the brain, the IBH argues that social cognition requires, in addition, causal relations between the brain and the social environment. We discuss, in turn, the foundational claims for the IBH in its strongest form; classical views of cognition that can be raised against the IBH; a defence of the IBH in the light of these arguments; and a response to this. Our goal is to initiate a dialogue between cognitive neuroscience and enactive views of social cognition. We conclude by suggesting some new directions and emphases that social neuroscience might take.
491	dynamical	2016	Chagdes, JR; Huber, JE; Saletta, M; Darling-White, M; Raman, A; Rietdyk, S; Zelaznik, HN; Haddad, JM	The relationship between intermittent limit cycles and postural instability associated with Parkinson's disease	JOURNAL OF SPORT AND HEALTH SCIENCE	Background: Many disease-specific factors such as muscular weakness, increased muscle stiffness, varying postural strategies, and changes in postural reflexes have been shown to lead to postural instability and fall risk in people with Parkinson's disease (PD). Recently, analytical techniques, inspired by the dynamical systems perspective on movement control and coordination, have been used to examine the mechanisms underlying the dynamics of postural declines and the emergence of postural instabilities in people with PD. Methods: A wavelet-based technique was used to identify limit cycle oscillations (LCOs) in the anterior-posterior (AP) postural sway of people with mild PD (n = 10) compared to age-matched controls (n = 10). Participants stood on a foam and on a rigid surface while completing a dual task (speaking). Results: There was no significant difference in the root mean square of center of pressure between groups. Three out of 10 participants with PD demonstrated LCOs on the foam surface, while none in the control group demonstrated LCOs. An inverted pendulum model of bipedal stance was used to demonstrate that LCOs occur due to disease-specific changes associated with PD: time-delay and neuromuscular feedback gain. Conclusion: Overall, the LCO analysis and mathematical model appear to capture the subtle postural instabilities associated with mild PD. In addition, these findings provide insights into the mechanisms that lead to the emergence of unstable posture in patients with PD. (C) 2016 Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Shanghai University of Sport.
492	dynamical	2014	Laurent, E	Multiscale Enaction Model (MEM) he case of complexity and "context-sensitivity" in vision	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	I review the data on human visual perception that reveal the critical role played by nonvisual contextual factors influencing visual activity. The global perspective that progressively emerges reveals that vision is sensitive to multiple couplings with other systems whose nature and levels of abstraction in science are highly variable. Contrary to some views where vision is immersed in modular hard-wired modules, rather independent from higherlevel or other non-cognitive processes, converging data gathered in this article suggest that visual perception can be theorized in the larger context of biological, physical, and social systems with which it is coupled, and through which it is enacted. Therefore, any attempt to model complexity and multiscale couplings, or to develop a complex synthesis in the fields of mind, brain, and behavior, shall involve a systematic empirical study of both connectedness between systems or subsystems, and the embodied, multiscale and flexible teleology of subsystems. The conceptual model (Multiscale Enaction Model [MEM]) that is introduced in this paper finally relates empirical evidence gathered from psychology to biocomputational data concerning the human brain. Both psychological and biocomputational descriptions of MEM are proposed in order to help fill in the gap between scales of scientific analysis and to provide an account for both the autopoiesis-driven search for information, and emerging perception.
493	dynamical	2014	Leverick, G; Szturm, T; Wu, CQ	Using Entropy Measures to Characterize Human Locomotion	JOURNAL OF BIOMECHANICAL ENGINEERING-TRANSACTIONS OF THE ASME	Entropy measures have been widely used to quantify the complexity of theoretical and experimental dynamical systems. In this paper, the value of using entropy measures to characterize human locomotion is demonstrated based on their construct validity, predictive validity in a simple model of human walking and convergent validity in an experimental study. Results show that four of the five considered entropy measures increase meaningfully with the increased probability of falling in a simple passive bipedal walker model. The same four entropy measures also experienced statistically significant increases in response to increasing age and gait impairment caused by cognitive interference in an experimental study. Of the considered entropy measures, the proposed quantized dynamical entropy (QDE) and quantization-based approximation of sample entropy (QASE) offered the best combination of sensitivity to changes in gait dynamics and computational efficiency. Based on these results, entropy appears to be a viable candidate for assessing the stability of human locomotion.
494	dynamical	2014	Afraimovich, VS; Young, TR; Rabinovich, MI	Hierarchical Heteroclinics in Dynamical Model of Cognitive Processes: Chunking	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF BIFURCATION AND CHAOS	Combining the results of brain imaging and nonlinear dynamics provides a new hierarchical vision of brain network functionality that is helpful in understanding the relationship of the network to different mental tasks. Using these ideas it is possible to build adequate models for the description and prediction of different cognitive activities in which the number of variables is usually small enough for analysis. The dynamical images of different mental processes depend on their temporal organization and, as a rule, cannot be just simple attractors since cognition is characterized by transient dynamics. The mathematical image for a robust transient is a stable heteroclinic channel consisting of a chain of saddles connected by unstable separatrices. We focus here on hierarchical chunking dynamics that can represent several cognitive activities. Chunking is the dynamical phenomenon that means dividing a long information chain into shorter items. Chunking is known to be important in many processes of perception, learning, memory and cognition. We prove that in the phase space of the model that describes chunking there exists a new mathematical object - heteroclinic sequence of heteroclinic cycles - using the technique of slow-fast approximations. This new object serves as a skeleton of motions reflecting sequential features of hierarchical chunking dynamics and is an adequate image of the chunking processing.
495	dynamical	2014	Fernandez-Leon, JA	Robustness as a non-localizable relational phenomenon	BIOLOGICAL REVIEWS	A current challenge in neuroscience, systems and theoretical biology is to understand what properties allow organisms to exhibit and sustain behaviours despite perturbations (behavioural robustness). Indeed, there are still significant theoretical difficulties in this endeavour due to the context-dependent nature of the problem. Contrary to the common view of biological robustness as a phenomenon that emerges internally, this article discusses the hypothesis that behavioural robustness is rooted in dynamical processes that distribute between internal controls, the organism body and the environment. This review highlights the varied perspectives and how they have led to the current focus on robustness as a relational phenomenon. A new perspective is proposed in which robustness is better understood in the context of agent-environment dynamical couplings, in which such couplings are not always the full determinants of robustness. The challenges and limitations of the proposed approach are identified.
496	dynamical	2014	Trofimova, I	Observer Bias: An Interaction of Temperament Traits with Biases in the Semantic Perception of Lexical Material	PLOS ONE	The lexical approach is a method in differential psychology that uses people's estimations of verbal descriptors of human behavior in order to derive the structure of human individuality. The validity of the assumptions of this method about the objectivity of people's estimations is rarely questioned. Meanwhile the social nature of language and the presence of emotionality biases in cognition are well-recognized in psychology. A question remains, however, as to whether such an emotionality-capacities bias is strong enough to affect semantic perception of verbal material. For the lexical approach to be valid as a method of scientific investigations, such biases should not exist in semantic perception of the verbal material that is used by this approach. This article reports on two studies investigating differences between groups contrasted by 12 temperament traits (i.e. by energetic and other capacities, as well as emotionality) in the semantic perception of very general verbal material. Both studies contrasted the groups by a variety of capacities: endurance, lability and emotionality separately in physical, social-verbal and mental aspects of activities. Hypotheses of "background emotionality" and a "projection through capacities" were supported. Non-evaluative criteria for categorization (related to complexity, organization, stability and probability of occurrence of objects) followed the polarity of evaluative criteria, and did not show independence from this polarity. Participants with stronger physical or social endurance gave significantly more positive ratings to a variety of concepts, and participants with faster physical tempo gave more positive ratings to timing-related concepts. The results suggest that people's estimations of lexical material related to human behavior have emotionality, language-and dynamical capacities-related biases and therefore are unreliable. This questions the validity of the lexical approach as a method for the objective study of stable individual differences.
497	dynamical	2013	Woodman, MM; Jirsa, VK	Emergent Dynamics from Spiking Neuron Networks through Symmetry Breaking of Connectivity	PLOS ONE	Low-dimensional attractive manifolds with flows prescribing the evolution of state variables are commonly used to capture the lawful behavior of behavioral and cognitive variables. Neural network dynamics underlie many of the mechanistic explanations of function and demonstrate the existence of such low-dimensional attractive manifolds. In this study, we focus on exploring the network mechanisms due to asymmetric couplings giving rise to the emergence of arbitrary flows in low dimensional spaces. Here we use a spiking neural network model, specifically the theta neuron model and simple synaptic dynamics, to show how a qualitatively identical set of basic behaviors arises from different combinations of couplings with broken symmetry, in fluctuations of both firing rate and spike timing. We further demonstrate how such network dynamics can be combined to create more complex processes. These results suggest that 1) asymmetric coupling is not always a variance to be averaged over, 2) different networks may produce the same dynamics by different dynamical routes and 3) complex dynamics may be formed by simpler dynamics through a combination of couplings.
498	dynamical	2012	Botvinick, M	Commentary: Why I Am Not a Dynamicist	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The dynamical systems approach in cognitive science offers a potentially useful perspective on both brain and behavior. Indeed, the importation of formal tools from dynamical systems research has already paid off for our field in many ways. However, like some other theoretical perspectives in cognitive science, the dynamical systems approach comes in both moderate or pragmatic and fundamentalist varieties (Jones & Love, 2011). In the latter form, dynamical systems theory can rise to some stirring rhetorical heights. However, as argued here, it also triggers a number of serious and specific reservations.
499	dynamical	2012	Fernandez-Leon, JA	Behavioral robustness: An emergent phenomenon by means of distributed mechanisms and neurodynamic determinacy	BIOSYSTEMS	Theoretical discussions and computational models of bio-inspired embodied and situated agents are introduced in this article capturing in simplified form the dynamical essence of robust, yet adaptive behavior. This article analyzes the general problem of how the dynamical coupling between internal control (brain), body and environment is used in the generation of specific behaviors. Based on the Evolutionary Robotics (ER) paradigm, four computational models are described to support discussions including descriptions on performance after a series of structural, sensorimotor or mutational perturbations, or are developed in the absence of them. Experimental results suggest that 'dynamic determinacy' - i.e. the continuous presence of a unique dynamical attractor that must be chased during functional behaviors - is a common dynamic phenomenon in the analyzed robust and adaptive agents. These agents show dynamical states that are definitely and unequivocally characterized via transient dynamics toward a unique, yet moving attractor at neural level for coherent actions. This determinacy emerges as a control strategy rooted on behavioral couplings and relies on mechanisms that are distributed on brain, body and environment. Different ways to induce further distribution of behavioral mechanisms are also discussed in this paper from a bio-inspired ER perspective. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
500	dynamical	2010	Hotton, S; Yoshimi, J	THE DYNAMICS OF EMBODIED COGNITION	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF BIFURCATION AND CHAOS	Historically cognition was understood as the result of processes occurring solely in the brain. Recently, however, cognitive scientists and philosophers studying "embodied" or "situated" cognition have begun emphasizing the role of the body and environment in which brains are situated, i.e. they view the brain as an "open system". However, these theorists frequently rely on dynamical systems which are traditionally viewed as closed systems. We address this tension by extending the framework of dynamical systems theory. We show how structures which appear in the state space of an embodied agent differ from those that appear in closed systems, and we show how these structures can be used to model representational processes in embodied agents. We focus on neural networks as models of embodied cognition.
501	dynamical	2011	Stepp, N; Chemero, A; Turvey, MT	Philosophy for the Rest of Cognitive Science	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Cognitive science has always included multiple methodologies and theoretical commitments. The philosophy of cognitive science should embrace, or at least acknowledge, this diversity. <link rid="b6">Bechtel's (2009a) proposed philosophy of cognitive science, however, applies only to representationalist and mechanist cognitive science, ignoring the substantial minority of dynamically oriented cognitive scientists. As an example of nonrepresentational, dynamical cognitive science, we describe strong anticipation as a model for circadian systems (<link rid="b54">Stepp & Turvey, 2009). We then propose a philosophy of science appropriate to nonrepresentational, dynamical cognitive science.
502	dynamical	2007	Chemero, A; Turvey, MT	Gibsonian affordances for roboticists	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Using hypersets as an analytic tool, we compare traditionally Gibsonian (Chemero 2003; Turvey 1992) and representationalist (Sahin et al. this issue) understandings of the notion 'affordance'. We show that representationalist understandings are incompatible with direct perception and erect barriers between animal and environment. They are, therefore, scarcely recognizable as understandings of 'affordance'. In contrast, Gibsonian understandings are shown to treat animal-environment systems as unified complex systems and to be compatible with direct perception. We discuss the fruitful connections between Gibsonian affordances and dynamical systems explanation in the behavioral sciences and point to prior fruitful application of Gibsonian affordances in robotics. We conclude that it is unnecessary to re-imagine affordances as representations in order to make them useful for researchers in robotics.
503	dynamical	2004	Fell, J	Identifying neural correlates of consciousness: The state space approach	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	This article sketches an idealized strategy for the identification of neural correlates of consciousness. The proposed strategy is based on a state space approach originating from the analysis of dynamical systems. The article then focuses on one constituent of consciousness, phenomenal awareness. Several rudimentary requirements for the identification of neural correlates of phenomenal awareness are suggested. These requirements are related to empirical data on selective attention, on completely intrinsic selection and on globally unconscious states. As an example, neuroscientific findings on synchronized gamma activity are categorized according to these requirements. (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
504	dynamical	2012	Meehan, TP; Bressler, SL	Neurocognitive networks: Findings, models, and theory	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	Through its early history, cognitive neuroscience largely followed a modular paradigm wherein high-level cognitive functions were mapped onto locally segregated brain regions. However, recent evidence drives a continuing shift away from modular theories of cognitive brain function, and toward theories which hold that cognition arises from the integrated activity of large-scale, distributed networks of brain regions. A growing consensus favors the fundamental concept of this new paradigm: the large-scale cognitive brain network, or neurocognitive network. This consensus was the motivation for Neurocognitive Networks 2010 (NCN 2010), a conference sponsored by the Cognitive Neuroscience Program of the National Science Foundation, organized by Drs. Steven Bressler and Craig Richter of Florida Atlantic University (FAU), and held at FAU in Boca Raton, FL on January 29-30, 2010. NCN 2010 gathered together some of today's leading investigators of neurocognitive networks. This paper serves to review their presentations as they relate to the paradigm of neurocognitive networks, as well as to compile the emergent themes, questions, and possible future research directions that arose from the conference. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
505	dynamical	2011	Seifert, L; Leblanc, H; Herault, R; Komar, J; Button, C; Chollet, D	Inter-individual variability in the upper-lower limb breaststroke coordination	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	The aim of the present study was to examine inter-individual variability in upper-lower limb breaststroke coordination. First, inter-individual variability was compared between recreational and comparative swimmers. Second, as recreational swimmers revealed more variable inter-limb coordination than competitive swimmers, inter-individual variability was assessed among recreational swimmers to identify coordination profiles. The elbow-knee continuous relative phase (CRP) was used to analyze upper-lower limbs coupling during a breaststroke cycle. Twenty-four recreational and twenty-four competitive swimmers swam 25 m at 80% of their maximal speed. Underwater and aerial side views were mixed and genlocked. Angular position, velocity and CRP were calculated for the knee and elbow joints by digitizing body markers from the side view. The kinematics of three cycles were filtered, averaged and normalized in terms of percentage of total cycle duration. The topography of the mean CRP curve of the recreational swimmers resembled a W-shape', whereas an 'inverse U-shape' was seen in the competitive swimmers. However, higher inter-individual variability was observed among the recreational swimmers than among the competitive swimmers (38.1 degrees vs. 19.4 degrees; p < .05), suggesting that several profiles of inter-limb coordination may exist in recreational swimmers. Coordination profiling showed that three clusters could classify the recreational swimmers. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
506	dynamical	2010	Pincus, D; Metten, A	Nonlinear Dynamics in Biopsychosocial Resilience	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS PSYCHOLOGY AND LIFE SCIENCES	Theory and methodology from nonlinear dynamical systems (AIDS) may provide considerable advantage to health scientists as well as health care professionals. For instance, NDS methodologies and topics in health care share a focus upon the potentially complex interactions of biological, psychological and social factors over time. Nevertheless, a number of challenges remain in creating the necessary bridges in understanding to allow researchers to apply NDS techniques and to enable practitioners to use the resulting evidence to improve patient care. This article aims to provide such a bridge. First, common concepts pertaining to self-organizing complex adaptive systems are outlined as a general approach to understanding resilience across biological, psychological, and social scales. Next, four data analytic techniques from NDS are compared and contrasted with respect to the information they may provide about some common processes underlying resilience. These techniques are: time-series analysis, state-space grids, catastrophe modeling, and network modeling. Implications for health scientists and practitioners are discussed.
507	dynamical	2008	Gibbs, RW; Cameron, L	The social-cognitive dynamics of metaphor performance	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	This paper describes some of the social-cognitive dynamics in people's production and understanding of metaphoric language. We adopt a dynamical systems approach to outline how different social and cognitive processes operates simultaneously as talk unfolds along different nested time-scales, which interact in complex, nonlinear ways to shape ;;metaphor performance''. Adopting a dynamic systems approach demonstrates how elements of metaphor performance that have been previously thought of as fixed or static are re-interpreted as potential emergent stabilities in the dynamical systems. This approach is applied to the analysis of a single conversation between two participants to get an overall impression of the interaction between these various forces when metaphor is produced and understood and to illustrate the stability and variability in metaphor performance. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
508	dynamical	2002	van Rooij, I; Bongers, RM; Haselager, WFG	A non-representational approach to imagined action	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This study addresses the dynamical nature of a "representation-hungry" cognitive task involving an imagined action. In our experiment, participants were handed rods that systematically increased or decreased in length on subsequent trials. Participants were asked to judge whether or not they thought they could reach for a distant object with the hand-held rod. The results are in agreement with a dynamical model, extended from Tuller, Case, Ding, and Kelso (1994). The dynamical effects observed in this study suggest that predictive judgments regarding the possibility or impossibility of a certain action can be understood in terms of dynamically evolving basins of attraction instead of as depending on representational structures. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
509	dynamical	2001	Faith, M; Thayer, JF	A dynamical systems interpretation of a dimensional model of emotion	SCANDINAVIAN JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	The dimensional structure of emotion was investigated using self reports of induced mood and idiographic and nomothetic analyses. Subjects attended four experimental sessions during which an array of affective states was induced via auditory, visual, and imaginal channels. For each of 118 stimulus events, subjects self-rated their response. Factor analysis yielded the predicted bipolar factors of valence and arousal: these were obtained in group-aggregated analysis and subsequently confirmed as change dimensions at the intraindividual level. Controversy over the fundamental dimensions of affective space was considered with respect to methodological issues such as factor rotation and sampling of data space. Valence and arousal are discussed as motivational, driving parameters of affective experience and a dynamical systems conceptualization of emotion is proposed.
510	dynamical	2001	Boker, SM	Differential structural equation modeling of intraindividual variability	NEW METHODS FOR THE ANALYSIS OF CHANGE	0
511	dynamical	2011	Nicholson, JS; Deboeck, PR; Farris, JR; Boker, SM; Borkowski, JG	Maternal Depressive Symptomatology and Child Behavior: Transactional Relationship With Simultaneous Bidirectional Coupling	DEVELOPMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	The present study investigated reciprocal relationships between adolescent mothers and their children's well-being through an analysis of the coupling relationship of mothers' depressive symptomatology and children's internalizing and externalizing behaviors. Unlike studies using discrete time analyses, the present study used dynamical systems to model time continuously, which allowed for the study of dynamic, transactional effects between members of each dyad. Findings provided evidence of coupling between maternal depressive symptoms and children's behaviors. The most robust finding was that as maternal depressive symptoms became more or less severe, children's behavior problems increased or decreased in a reciprocal manner. Results from this study extended upon theoretical contributions of such authors as Richters (1997) and Granic and Hollenstein (2003), providing empirical validation from a longitudinal study for understanding the ongoing, dynamic relationships between at-risk mothers and their children.
512	dynamical	2009	Tilsen, S	Multitimescale Dynamical Interactions Between Speech Rhythm and Gesture	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Temporal patterns in human movement, and in speech in particular, occur on multiple timescales. Regularities in such patterns have been observed between speech gestures, which are relatively quick movements of articulators (e.g., tongue fronting and lip protrusion), and also between rhythmic units (e.g., syllables and metrical feet), which occur more slowly. Previous work has shown that patterns in both domains can be usefully modeled with oscillatory dynamical systems. To investigate how rhythmic and gestural domains interact, an experiment was conducted in which speakers performed a phrase repetition task, and gestural kinematics were recorded using electromagnetic articulometry. Variance in relative timing of gestural movements was correlated with variance in rhythmic timing, indicating that gestural and rhythmic systems interact in the process of planning and producing speech. A model of rhythmic and gestural planning oscillators with multifrequency coupling is presented, which can simulate the observed covariability between rhythmic and gestural timing.
513	dynamical	2004	Huys, R; Daffertshofer, A; Beek, PJ	Multiple time scales and subsystem embedding in the learning of juggling	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	To gain insight into the multiform dynamics and integration of remote yet pertinent subsystems into the performance of complex perceptual-motor skills, we recently conducted a series of longitudinal and cross-sectional experiments on the acquisition of 3-ball cascade juggling in which we measured, next to the ball trajectories, postural sway, eye and head movements and respiration. The aim of the present paper is to review the main results and theoretical implications of these experimental studies for understanding skill acquisition. As regards the evolution of the quality of the juggling itself, we found that only certain aspects of throwing and catching were adjusted, while the goal behavior of sustained juggling (operationalized as the number of consecutive throws) and the degree of frequency and phase locking between the ball trajectories, indexing pattern stability, increased monotonically. The latter three aspects evolved at different rates, reflecting the existence of a temporal hierarchy in learning. Postural sway exhibited initial manifestations of task-specific, possibly mechanically induced, modes of 3:1 and 3:2 frequency locking with the ball trajectories and only few transitions between those modes. Functional stability appeared to be enhanced during practice by minimizing the sway amplitudes rather than by adjusting the sway dynamics itself. Eye and point-of-gaze movements also showed instances of 3:1 and 3:2 frequency locking with the ball trajectories; especially establishing a 3:1 locking (horizontal eye movements) appeared to be important. Expert behavior suggested that extended practice promotes reliance on multiple sources of information, allowing the proficient juggler to switch adaptively between functional organizations involving distinct perceptual systems. No consistent coordination between breathing and juggling was found. It was concluded that multiform dynamics, involving hierarchically ordered time scales, underlie the acquisition of complex skills and that the subsystems subserving realization of the task goal become assembled and embedded in a task- and subsystem-specific manner. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
514	dynamical	2004	Bisconti, TL; Bergeman, CS; Boker, SM	Emotional well-being in recently bereaved widows: A dynamical systems approach	JOURNALS OF GERONTOLOGY SERIES B-PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES	A dynamical systems approach was used to model the intraindividual variability in emotional well-being following conjugal loss. Well-being in a sample of 19 recently bereaved older adult widows was measured every day for 3 months. The pattern of variability of well-being was hypothesized to be an oscillating process that damps across time (i.e., large swings followed by a gradual damping). Results indicated that there was significant patterned variability in the emotional well-being adjustment that can be modeled by a linear oscillator model (R-2 = .77), in addition to an overall positive trend. Applying dynamical systems analyses to capture variability and subsequent well-being trajectories following spousal loss is an important step in delineating the complex adjustment to widowhood.
515	dynamical	2003	Liu, YT; Mayer-Kress, G; Newell, KM	Beyond curve fitting: A dynamical systems account of exponential learning in a discrete timing task	JOURNAL OF MOTOR BEHAVIOR	The authors examined the function for learning a discrete timing task from a dynamical systems perspective rather than solely the traditional curve-fitting viewpoint. Adult participants (N = 8) practiced a single-limb angular movement task of 125 ms over 20degrees for 200 trials. There was no significant difference in percentage of variance accounted for in 3 parameter exponential and power-law nonlinear fits to the individual and averaged data. The percentage of variance increased in both exponential and power-law equations when the data were averaged over participants and trials. Drawing on a dynamical systems approach to time scales in motor learning and on analysis of the distinctive features of exponential and power-law functions, however, the authors conclude that the exponential is the learning function for that task and that level of practice.
516	dynamical	2002	Treffner, P; Peter, M	Intentional and attentional dynamics of speech-hand coordination	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	Interest is rapidly growing in the hypothesis that natural language emerged from a more primitive set of linguistic acts based primarily on manual activity and hand gestures. Increasingly, researchers are investigating how hemispheric asymmetries are related to attentional and manual asymmetries (i.e., handedness). Both speech perception and production have origins in the dynamical generative movements of the vocal tract known as articulatory gestures. Thus, the notion of a "gesture" can be extended to both hand movements and speech articulation. The generative actions of the hands and vocal tract can therefore provide a basis for the (direct) perception of linguistic acts. Such gestures are best described using the methods of dynamical systems analysis since both perception and production can be described using the same commensurate language. Experiments were conducted using a phase transition paradigm to examine the coordination of speech-hand gestures in both left- and right-handed individuals. Results address coordination (in-phase vs. anti-phase), hand (left vs. right), lateralization (left vs. right hemisphere), focus of attention (speech vs. tapping), and how dynamical constraints provide a foundation for human communicative acts. Predictions from the asymmetric HKB equation confirm the attentional basis of functional asymmetry. Of significance is a new understanding of the role of perceived synchrony (p-centres) during intentional cases of gestural coordination. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
517	dynamical	2013	Buhrmann, T; Di Paolo, EA; Barandiaran, X	A dynamical systems account of sensorimotor contingencies	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	According to the sensorimotor approach, perception is a form of embodied know-how, constituted by lawful regularities in the sensorimotor flow or in sensorimotor contingencies (SMCs) in an active and situated agent. Despite the attention that this approach has attracted, there have been few attempts to define its core concepts formally. In this paper, we examine the idea of SMCs and argue that its use involves notions that need to be distinguished. We introduce four distinct kinds of SMCs, which we define operationally. These are the notions of sensorimotor environment (open-loop motor-induced sensory variations), sensorimotor habitat (closed-loop sensorimotor trajectories), sensorimotor coordination (reliable sensorimotor patterns playing a functional role), and sensorimotor strategy (normative organization of sensorimotor coordinations). We make use of a minimal dynamical model of visually guided categorization to test the explanatory value of the different kinds of SMCs. Finally, we discuss the impact of our definitions on the conceptual development and empirical as well as model-based testing of the claims of the sensorimotor approach.
518	dynamical	2007	Cosmelli, D; Lachaux, JP; Thompson, E	Neurodynamical Approaches to Consciousness	CAMBRIDGE HANDBOOK OF CONSCIOUSNESS	One of the outstanding problems in the cognitive sciences is to understand how ongoing conscious experience is related to the workings of the brain and nervous system. Neurodynamics offers a powerful approach to this problem because it provides a coherent framework for investigating change, variability, complex spatiotemporal patterns of activity, and multiscale processes (among others). In this chapter, we advocate a neurodynamical approach to consciousness that integrates mathematical tools of analysis and modeling, sophisticated physiological data recordings, and detailed phenomenological descriptions. We begin by stating the basic intuition: Consciousness is an intrinsically dynamic phenomenon and must therefore be studied within a framework that is capable of rendering its dynamics intelligible. We then discuss some of the formal, analytical features of dynamical systems theory, with particular reference to neurodynamics. We then review several neuroscientific proposals that make use of dynamical systems theory in characterizing the neurophysiological basis of consciousness. We continue by discussing the relation between spatiotemporal patterns of brain activity and consciousness, with particular attention to processes in the gamma frequency band. We then adopt a critical perspective and highlight a number of issues demanding further treatment. Finally, we close the chapter by discussing how phenomenological data can relate to and ultimately constrain neurodynamical descriptions, with the long-term aim being to go beyond a purely correlational strategy of research.
519	dynamical	2005	Chen, HH; Liu, YT; Mayer-Kress, G; Newell, KM	Learning the pedalo locomotion task	JOURNAL OF MOTOR BEHAVIOR	The authors examined the learning function of a multiple biomechanical degrees of freedom coordination task. Four adult participants practiced the pedalo locomotion task for 350 trials over 7 days. On the basis of the Cauchy theorem, the authors applied a movement pattern difference score that provides a measure of convergence to a fixed point as the criterion for quantifying learning. The findings showed a significant reduction of the movement pattern difference score over practice. Neither at) exponential (0.11) nor a power law (0.10) function accommodated a large percentage of the variance of the pattern difference measure on individual learning functions, but the respective fits were higher, although not different. for movement time (.57,.55). Principal components analysis showed a decrease of components Over practice; the analysis also showed that 3-5 components were required to accommodate 90% of the variance of the whole-body motion at the end of the final practice session. Those findings on the learning functions for movement and outcome scores are discussed in relation to the redundancy of the biomechanical system in moving to a dynamical stable fixed point in this task.
520	dynamical	2004	Knight, CA	Neuromotor issues in the learning and control of golf skill	RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT	Theoretical and practical issues related to the neuromotor control of a go swing are presented in this paper. The typical strategy for golf training consists of high volume repetition with an emphasis on a large variety of isolated swing characteristics. The student is frequently instructed to maintain consistent performance in each swing with absolute invariance. Based on dynamical systems and motor control schema perspectives, it is argued that golfers can learn a more reliable swing by exploring swing parameters and focusing on higher order control principles that reduce the vast number of degrees of freedom. Some candidate training Practices are proposed for applying these theoretical issues into practice.
521	dynamical	2002	Byrne, JE; Stergiou, N; Blanke, D; Houser, JJ; Kurz, MJ; Hageman, PA	Comparison of gait patterns between young and elderly women: An examination of coordination	PERCEPTUAL AND MOTOR SKILLS	This study investigated intralimb coordination during walking in young and elderly women using the theoretical model of dynamical systems, 20 women, 10 Young (M age = 24.6 yr., SD = 3.2 yr.) and 10 Elderly (M age = 73.7 yr., SD = 4.9 yr.), were videotaped during free speed gait and gait perturbed by an ankle weight. Two parameters, one describing the phasing relationship between segments (mean absolute relative phase) and the other the variability of this relationship (deviation in phase), were calculated from the kinematics. Two-way analysis of variance (age and weight) with repeated measures on weight indicated that during the braking period the weight increased the mean absolute relative phase between the shank and the thigh and decreased it between the foot and the shank. The Elderly women had significant smaller values for the mean absolute relative phase between the shank and the thigh during the braking period. For the same period, deviation in phase increased for the segmental relationship between the shank and the thigh. The findings suggest that changes in intralimb coordination take place with asymmetrical weighting and the aging process. These changes are most clearly present during the braking period.
522	dynamical	1995	CASE, P; TULLER, B; DING, MZ; KELSO, JAS	EVALUATION OF A DYNAMICAL MODEL OF SPEECH-PERCEPTION	PERCEPTION & PSYCHOPHYSICS	Previous work (Tuller, Case, Ding, & Kelso, 1994) has revealed signature properties of nonlinear dynamical systems in how people categorize speech sounds. The data were modeled by using a two-well potential function that deformed with stimulus properties and was sensitive to context. Kere we evaluate one prediction of the model-namely, that the rate of change of the potential's slope should increase when the category is repeatedly perceived. Judged goodness of category membership was used as an index of the slope of the potential. Stimuli from a ''say''-''stay'' continuum were presented with gap duration changing sequentially throughout the range from 0 to 76 to 0 msec, or from 76 to 0 to 76 msec. Subjects identified each token as either ''say'' or ''stay'' and rated how good an exemplar it was of the identified category. As predicted, the same physical stimulus presented at the end of a sequence was judged a better exemplar of the category than was the identical stimulus presented at the beginning of the sequence. In contrast, stimuli presented twice near the middle of a sequence with few (or no) stimuli between them, as well as stimuli presented with an intervening random set, showed no such differences. These results confirm the hypothesis of a context-sensitive dynamical representation underlying speech.
523	dynamical	2014	Ros, T; Baars, BJ; Lanius, RA; Vuilleumier, P	Tuning pathological brain oscillations with neurofeedback: a systems neuroscience framework	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Neurofeedback (NFB) is emerging as a promising technique that enables self regulation of ongoing brain oscillations. However, despite a rise in empirical evidence attesting to its clinical benefits, a solid theoretical basis is still lacking on the manner in which NFB is able to achieve these outcomes. The present work attempts to bring together various concepts from neurobiology, engineering, and dynamical systems so as to propose a contemporary theoretical framework for the mechanistic effects of NFB. The objective is to provide a firmly neurophysiological account of NFB, which goes beyond traditional behaviorist interpretations that attempt to explain psychological processes solely from a descriptive standpoint whilst treating the brain as a "black box". To this end, we interlink evidence from experimental findings that encompass a broad range of intrinsic brain phenomena: starting from "bottom-up" mechanisms of neural synchronization, followed by "top-down" regulation of internal brain states, moving to dynamical systems plus control-theoretic principles, and concluding with activity-dependent as well as homeostatic forms of brain plasticity. In support of our framework, we examine the effects of NFB in several brain disorders, including attention deficit hyperactivity (ADHD) and post traumatic stress disorder (RISC)). In sum, it is argued that pathological oscillations emerge from an abnormal formation of brain-state attractor landscape(s). The central thesis put forward is that NFB tunes brain oscillations toward a homeostatic set-point which affords an optimal balance between network flexibility and stability (i.e., self organised criticality (SOC)).
524	dynamical	2009	Stiles, J	On Genes, Brains, and Behavior: Why Should Developmental Psychologists Care About Brain Development?	CHILD DEVELOPMENT PERSPECTIVES	The past several decades have seen tremendous progress in understanding mammalian brain development. The models that have emerged suggest that this development is dynamic and, from the very beginning, involves the continuous interaction of genetic, organismic, and environmental factors. The central question posed in this article is whether these models of brain development should be of import to developmental psychologists. It is argued that the key debates in psychology are founded on assumptions that are integrally related to questions of biology and biological inheritance. The construct of innateness, in particular, is central to these debates, and the biological system most critically implicated in claims about innate behaviors is the brain. However, as this article attempts to show, the underlying assumptions of contemporary psychological models reflect largely outdated ideas about what it means for something to be innate. Contemporary models of brain development challenge the foundational constructs of the nature versus nurture formulation, emphasizing that the processes of brain development engage both inherited and environmental factors and rely upon their continuous interaction. These models also emphasize that the relationship between brain and behavioral development is one of interdependence and reciprocity: Behaviors influence brain development and the brain mediates all behavior. Thus, the key to understanding the origins and emergence of both the brain and behavior lies in understanding how genetic, organismic, and environmental factors are engaged in the dynamic and interactive processes that define development of the neurobehavioral system.
525	dynamical	2007	van Leeuwen, C	What needs to emerge to make you conscious?	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	Perceptual experience can be explained by contextualized brain dynamics. An inner loop of ongoing activity within the brain produces dynamic patterns of synchronization and de-synchronization that are necessary, but not sufficient, for visual experience. This inner loop is controlled by evolution, development, socialization, learning, task and perception-action contingencies, which constitute an outer loop. This outer loop is sufficient, but not necessary, for visual experience. Jointly, the inner and outer loop may offer sufficient and necessary conditions for the emergence of visual experience. This hypothesis has methodological, empirical, theoretical, and philosophical implications.
526	dynamical	2006	Der, R; Hesse, F; Martius, G	Rocking stamper and jumping snakes from a dynamical systems approach to artificial life	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Dynamical systems offer intriguing possibilities as a substrate for the generation of behavior because of their rich behavioral complexity. However this complexity together with the largely covert relation between the parameters and the behavior of the agent is also the main hindrance in the goal oriented design of a behavior system. This paper presents a general approach to the self-regulation of dynamical systems so that the design problem is circumvented. We consider the controller (a neural network) as the mediator for changes in the sensor values over time and define a dynamics for the parameters of the controller by maximizing the dynamical complexity of the sensorimotor loop under the condition that the consequences of the actions taken are still predictable. This very general principle is given a concrete mathematical formulation and is implemented in an extremely robust and versatile algorithm for the parameter dynamics of the controller. We consider two different applications, a mechanical device called the rocking stamper and the ODE simulations of a "snake" with five degrees of freedom. In these and many other examples studied we observed various behavior modes of high dynamical complexity.
527	dynamical	1997	Michaels, CF; Stins, JF	An ecological approach to stimulus-response compatibility	THEORETICAL ISSUES IN STIMULUS-RESPONSE COMPATIBILITY	The ecological approach charted by J. J. Gibson and extended by others takes as its goal elucidating the natural laws that capture coordination of action with respect to sensory information. A kernel theme is the theory of affordances. Whether an affordance is realized (whether some action occurs) depends on the occasion (incl. the intentions of the actor) and on the availability of information that stabilizes and constrains the emerging action. The goal of our paper is to elaborate the implications of this general theory of perception and action for ''S-R compatibility,'' currently a family of research paradigms, empirical phenomena, and theoretical constructs rooted primarily in the information-processing approach. We make four claims: Theory and research in compatibility would benefit by (I) considering the identification of ''the stimulus,'' both distal and proximal, as one aim of experimental research, and thereby not relying on arbitrary ''stimulus'' properties; (2) identifying the goals and coordination of actions, rather than relying on current characterizations of ''response'' properties, which have little or nothing to do with the action system; (3) considering the task of the perceiver-actor to be detecting information appropriate to constrain those action degrees of freedom left unconstrained by the task situation (instructions, intentions, etc.); and (4) exploiting the advances made by the dynamical systems approach to coordination in rhythmic movement. We summarize research motivated by each of these claims.
528	dynamical	2014	Bruineberg, J; Rietveld, E	Self-organization, free energy minimization, and optimal grip on a field of affordances	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	In this paper, we set out to develop a theoretical and conceptual framework for the new field of Radical Embodied Cognitive Neuroscience. This framework should be able to integrate insights from several relevant disciplines: theory on embodied cognition, ecological psychology, phenomenology, dynamical systems theory, and neurodynamics. We suggest that the main task of Radical Embodied Cognitive Neuroscience is to investigate the phenomenon of skilled intentionality from the perspective of the self-organization of the brain-body-environment system, while doing justice to the phenomenology of skilled action. In previous work, we have characterized skilled intentionality as the organism's tendency toward an optimal grip on multiple relevant affordances simultaneously. Affordances are possibilities for action provided by the environment. In the first part of this paper, we introduce the notion of skilled intentionality and the phenomenon of responsiveness to a field of relevant affordances. Second, we use Friston's work on neurodynamics, but embed a very minimal version of his Free Energy Principle in the ecological niche of the animal. Thus amended, this principle is helpful for understanding the embeddedness of neurodynamics within the dynamics of the system "brain-body-landscape of affordances." Next, we show how we can use this adjusted principle to understand the neurodynamics of selective openness to the environment: interacting action-readiness patterns at multiple timescales contribute to the organism's selective openness to relevant affordances. In the final part of the paper, we emphasize the important role of metastable dynamics in both the brain and the brain-body-environment system for adequate affordance-responsiveness. We exemplify our integrative approach by presenting research on the impact of Deep Brain Stimulation on affordance responsiveness of OCD patients.
529	dynamical	2013	Ferrer, E; Helm, JL	Dynamical systems modeling of physiological coregulation in dyadic interactions	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PSYCHOPHYSIOLOGY	In this paper, we used a dynamical systems approach to examine the interrelations of the physiological signals in dyadic interactions. We introduced a system of differential equations developed for dyadic research (Felmlee and Greenberg, 1999) and applied it to time series of heart rate and respiration from individuals in 32 couples. The model included parameters representing self-regulation and coregulation for each individual in the dyad. We applied the model directly to each dyad's data and then examined the distributions of the parameters, and compared such parameters across the three laboratory tasks. In the final step, we explored the associations between the parameter estimates extracted from the physiological data with those parameters from a similar model fitted to daily self-reports of affect. (c) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
530	dynamical	2010	Baum, WM	DYNAMICS OF CHOICE: A TUTORIAL	JOURNAL OF THE EXPERIMENTAL ANALYSIS OF BEHAVIOR	Choice may be defined as the allocation of behavior among activities. Since all activities take up time, choice is conveniently thought of as the allocation of time among activities, even if activities like pecking are most easily measured by counting. Since dynamics refers to change through time, the dynamics of choice refers to change of allocation through time. In the dynamics of choice, as in other dynamical systems that include feedback, change is away from perturbation and toward a steady state. Steady state or equilibrium is assessed on a longer time scale than change because change is only visible on a smaller time scale. When we compare laws of equilibrium, such as the matching law with laws of dynamics, two possibilities emerge. Self-similarity occurs when the same law can be seen across smaller time scales, with the result that the law at longer time scales may be understood as the expression of its application at smaller time scales. Reduction occurs when the dynamics at a small time scale are incommensurate with the dynamics at longer time scales. Then the process at the longer time scale is reduced to a qualitatively different process at the smaller time scale, as when choice is reduced to switching patterns. When reduction occurs, the dynamics at the longer time scale may be derived from the process at the smaller time scale, but not the other way around. Research at different time scales is facilitated by the molar viewof behavior.
531	dynamical	2005	Bornas, X; Llabres, J; Noguera, M; Lopez, AM; Barcelo, F; Tortella-Feliu, M; Fullana, MA	Looking at the heart of low and high heart rate variability fearful flyers: self-reported anxiety when confronting feared stimuli	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Previous research has shown that phobic subjects with low heart rate variability (HRV) are less able to inhibit an inappropriate response when confronted with threatening words compared to phobic subjects with high HRV [Johnsen, B.H., Thayer, J.F., Laberg, J.C., Wormnes, B., Raadal, M., Skaret, E., et al., 2003. Attentional and physiological characteristics of patients with dental anxiety. Journal of Anxiety Disorders, 17, 75-87]. The aim of this study was to evaluate changes in self-reported anxiety when low HRV and high HRV fearful flyers (N = 15) and a matched control group (N = 15) were exposed to flight-related pictures, flight-related sounds or both pictures and sounds. We hypothesized that sounds would be crucial to evoke fear. Also, low HRV fearful flyers were expected to report higher anxiety than high HRV fearful flyers assuming anxiety as their inappropriate response. Decreases on HRV measures were also predicted for a subgroup of phobic participants (N = 10) when confronted with the feared stimuli. Our data supported the hypothesis that sounds are crucial in this kind of phobia. Low HRV fearful flyers reported higher anxiety than high HRV fearful flyers in two out of three aversive conditions. The predicted HRV decreases were not found in this study. Results are discussed in the context of avoidance of exposure-based treatments. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
532	dynamical	2003	Gonzalez, B; Huerta-Sanchez, E; Ortiz-Nieves, A; Vazquez-Alvarez, T; Kribs-Zaleta, C	AmI too fat? Bulimia as an epidemic	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	For at least the past 10 yr, eating disorders have had a major impact on the physical and mental health of women, particularly young women. Anorexia and bulimia nervosa are closely linked eating disorders. Anorexia often precedes bulimia. However, there are about 2 million women in college that have been exclusively bulimic. In this article, we focus on the role of college-peer pressure on the dynamics of anorexia-free bulimia. The model looks at bulimia as a progressive disease and explores the impact of intervention (treatment) at two stages of disease progression. The impact of relapse (a common occurrence among bulimics) is taken into account. Analysis indicates that the disorder cannot be wiped out in this population without a shift in cultural pressures; control strategies should include early detection and treatment, as well as preventative education campaigns. (C) 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
533	dynamical	1994	HORGAN, T; TIENSON, J	A NONCLASSICAL FRAMEWORK FOR COGNITIVE SCIENCE	SYNTHESE	David Marr provided a useful framework for theorizing about cognition within classical, AI-style cognitive science, in terms of three levels of description:  the levels of (i) cognitive function, (ii) algorithm and (iii) physical implementation.  We generalize this framework:  (i) cognitive state transitions, (ii) mathematical/functional design and (iii) physical implementation or realization.  Specifying the middle, design level to be the theory of dynamical systems yields a nonclassical, alternative framework that suits (but is not committed to) connectionism.  We consider how a brain's (or a network's) being a dynamical system might be the key both to its realizing various essential features of cognition - productivity, systematicity, structure-sensitive processing, syntax - and also to a non-classical solution of (frame-type) problems plaguing classical cognitive science.
534	dynamical	1992	MARR, MJ	BEHAVIOR DYNAMICS - ONE PERSPECTIVE	JOURNAL OF THE EXPERIMENTAL ANALYSIS OF BEHAVIOR	Behavior dynamics is a field devoted to analytic descriptions of behavior change. A principal source of both models and methods for these descriptions is found in physics. This approach is an extension of a long conceptual association between behavior analysis and physics. A theme common to both is the rote of molar versus molecular events in description and prediction. Similarities and differences in how these events are treated are discussed. Two examples are presented that illustrate possible correspondence between mechanical and behavioral systems. The first demonstrates the use of a mechanical model to describe the molar properties of behavior under changing reinforcement conditions. The second, dealing with some features of concurrent schedules, focuses on the possible utility of nonlinear dynamical systems to the description of both molar and molecular behavioral events as the outcome of a deterministic, but chaotic, process.
535	dynamical	2012	Coey, CA; Varlet, M; Richardson, MJ	Coordination dynamics in a socially situated nervous system	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Traditional theories of cognitive science have typically accounted for the organization of human behavior by detailing requisite computational/representational functions and identifying neurological mechanisms that might perform these functions. Put simply, such approaches hold that neural activity causes behavior. This same general framework has been extended to accounts of human social behavior via concepts such as common-coding and co-representation and much recent neurological research has been devoted to brain structures that might execute these social-cognitive functions. Although these neural processes are unquestionably involved in the organization and control of human social interactions, there is good reason to question whether they should be accorded explanatory primacy. Alternatively, we propose that a full appreciation of the role of neural processes in social interactions requires appropriately situating them in their context of embodied-embedded constraints. To this end, we introduce concepts from dynamical systems theory and review research demonstrating that the organization of human behavior, including social behavior, can be accounted for in terms of self-organizing processes and lawful dynamics of animal-environment systems. Ultimately, we hope that these alternative concepts can complement the recent advances in cognitive neuroscience and thereby provide opportunities to develop a complete and coherent account of human social interaction.
536	dynamical	2007	Iizuka, H; Di Paolo, EA	Toward spinozist robotics: Exploring the minimal dynamics of Behavioral preference	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	A preference is not located anywhere in the agent's cognitive architecture, but it is rather a constraining of behavior which is in turn shaped by behavior. Based on this idea, a minimal model of behavioral preference is proposed. A simulated mobile agent is modeled with a plastic neurocontroller, which holds two separate high dimensional homeostatic boxes in the space of neural dynamics. An evolutionary algorithm is used for creating a link between the boxes and the performance of two different phototactic behaviors. After evolution, the agent's performance exhibits some important aspects of behavioral preferences such as durability and transitions. This article demonstrates (1) the logical consistency of the multi-causal view by producing a case study of its viability and providing insights into its dynamical basis and (2) how durability and transitions arise through the mutual constraining of internal and external dynamics in the flow of alternating high and low susceptibility to environmental variations. Implications for modeling autonomy are discussed.
537	dynamical	2003	Newell, KM	Schema theory (1975): Retrospectives and prospectives	RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT	A brief commentary is provided on the theoretical assumptions, scholarly impact and continuing influence of the schema theory of motor learning (Schmidt, 1975). The traditional contrasts of schema theory to the coordinative structure or dynamical systems framework are reemphasized, and limitations of the variability of practice experiments noted. A central problem for theories of motor learning is change over time, the basis on which learning is typically defined. Most theories including schema have, however, undervalued the importance of the time-dependent nature of change in deference to the almost exclusive study of the amount of some averaged change in behavioral outcome. The persistent and transitory change(s) in movement and outcome that are observed in action are reflections of multiple time scales of change in a dynamical system.
538	dynamical	2003	Elman, J	Development: it's about time	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	Traditionally, research has been defined as being about development if it focuses on behaviors that occur during development, without reference either to what precedes or follows, or - more importantly - the mechanisms that drive change. This perspective has been challenged by two new approaches: dynamical systems, and connectionism, both of which have as core goals the explanation of change. Interestingly, these approaches have also been seen by many as being at odds with one another, for reasons that are in part valid, and in part superficial. Recent developments in both approaches suggest that a convergence is occurring, although much remains to be done before a true. unification can take place.
539	dynamical	2002	Rueckl, JG	The dynamics of visual word recognition	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This article provides an overview of a dynamical systems approach to visual word recognition. In this approach, the dynamics of word recognition are characterized in terms of a connectionist network model. According to this model, seeing a word results in changes in the pattern of activation over the nodes in the lexical network such that, over time, the network moves into an attractor state representing the orthographic, phonological, and semantic properties of that word. At a slower time-scale, a learning process modifies the strengths of the connections among the nodes in a way that attunes the network to the statistical regularities in its environment. This view of word identification accommodates a wide body of empirical results, a representative sampling of which is discussed here. Finally, the article closes with a discussion of some of the theoretical issues that should be addressed as the dynamical approach continues to develop.
540	dynamical	2001	Kelly, A; Heathcote, A; Heath, R; Longstaff, M	Response-time dynamics: Evidence for linear and low-dimensional nonlinear structure in human choice sequences	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY SECTION A-HUMAN EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Response time (RT) is a commonly used measure of cognitive performance, which is usually characterized as stochastic. However, useful information may be hidden in the apparently random fluctuations of RT. Dynamical systems analysis techniques allow an exploration of the alternative hypothesis that RT fluctuations are deterministic, albeit in a complex manner. We applied careful task construction and noise-reduction and surrogate series tests to show that RT series from a forced-pace serial response-time task have low-dimensional chaotic characteristics. In Experiment 1, 80% of subjects' filtered RT series had low dimensionality, sensitive dependence on initial conditions, spectra close to I If, and stable attractor geometry across sessions. In Experiment 2, we showed that the size of the inter-stimulus interval (ISI) determined the number of subjects with low-dimensional chaotic series. A small ISI caused 100% of subjects to respond in the chaotic regime, whereas only 25% had a low-dimensional chaotic RT component when the ISI was large. We argue that demanding task requirements cause a reduction in the dimensionality of the dynamics, producing RT fluctuations that may reflect a response strategy for controlling RT.
541	dynamical	2013	Sprecher, S; Treger, S; Sakaluk, JK	Premarital Sexual Standards and Sociosexuality: Gender, Ethnicity, and Cohort Differences	ARCHIVES OF SEXUAL BEHAVIOR	In this article, we present results from a "cohort-longitudinal" analysis of sexual attitudes and behaviors based on a large sample of young adults (N = 7,777) obtained from a university setting over a 23-year period. We investigated gender, ethnicity, and cohort differences in sexual permissiveness, endorsement of the double standard, and sociosexuality. Compared to women, men had more permissive attitudes, particularly about sex in casual relationships, endorsed the double standard to a greater degree, and had a more unrestricted sociosexuality. Black men were generally more permissive than White, Hispanic, and Asian men, whereas ethnic differences were not found among women. Participants from the 1995-1999 cohort were slightly less permissive than those from the 1990-1994 and 2005-2012 cohorts. Although prior meta-analytic studies (e.g., Petersen & Hyde, 2010) found reduced gender differences in sexuality over time, our cohort analyses suggest that gender differences in sexual permissiveness have not changed over the past two decades among college students.
542	dynamical	2008	Spencer, JP; Perone, S	Defending Qualitative Change: The View From Dynamical Systems Theory	CHILD DEVELOPMENT	A central controversy in developmental science, enflamed by nativist accounts, is whether development is best viewed as a series of qualitative or continuous changes. This article defends the notion of qualitative change from the perspective of dynamical systems theory (DST). Qualitative change within DST refers to the shift that occurs when a system goes from one attractor state through an instability into a different attractor state. Such changes occur on the second-to-second timescale of behavior. Thus, developmental analysis must always stay local, grounded in the real-time attractor states around which behavior is organized. This article also demonstrates that qualitative and continuous change should not be cast in opposition. They are aligned concepts that work together across multiple timescales.
543	dynamical	2005	Atmanspacher, H; Fach, W	Acategoriality as mental instability	JOURNAL OF MIND AND BEHAVIOR	Mental representations are based upon categories in which the state of a mental system is stable. Acategorial states, on the other hand, are distinguished by unstable behavior. A refined and compact terminology for the description of categorial and acategorial mental states and their stability properties is introduced within the framework of the theory of dynamical systems. The relevant concepts are illustrated by selected empirical observations in cognitive neuroscience. Alterations of the category of the first person singular and features of creative activity will be discussed as examples for the phenomenology of acategorial states.
544	dynamical	1998	van der Maas, HLJ; Hopkins, B	Developmental transitions: So what's new?	BRITISH JOURNAL OF DEVELOPMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Structural approaches to development, such as Piaget's stage theory, have proved to be problematic in dealing with developmental transitions. More promising in this respect are models of qualitative change that address macroscopical phase shifts in non-linear dynamical systems that arise from quantitative changes at the microscopical level. In this introductory paper, we attempt to clarify the meanings of some of the core terms used in these models so as to set the scene for the subsequent contributions. We stress the relevance of recent advances in catastrophe theory for detecting developmental transitions and suggest that the concept of self-organization as formulated in irreversible thermodynamics provides a framework for explaining them. As yet, there is a lack of convincing evidence that transitions of interest to developmental psychologists comply with principles of self-organization that have become well established for time-evolving systems in other disciplines such as chemistry and biology. Demonstrations of self-organization in psychologically relevant simulation models are a first step in attaining such evidence. In this special issue, we concentrate primarily on a common approach to the detection of transitions across a number of domains of development. However, in doing so illustrations are given of the ways in which the hypothesis of self-organization can be used to account for the mechanisms of developmental transitions.
545	dynamical	1995	WHITALL, J; GETCHELL, N	FROM WALKING TO RUNNING - APPLYING A DYNAMICAL-SYSTEMS APPROACH TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF LOCOMOTOR SKILLS	CHILD DEVELOPMENT	Developmental transitions of complex systems may be studied by selecting (collective) variables that constrain the degrees of freedom for each developmental state. In a dynamical systems approach, the transitions from state to state are engendered through the scaling of contributing subsystems (control parameters). In this study, the locomotor skills of walking and running were compared in newly running infants by observing several likely collective variables including relative stance, estimated pathway of center of mass, and segmental/joint action. 4 children were filmed longitudinally at 5.5, 7.5, and 9.5 months of independent walking and then at 3 years of age. 3 trials per gait were selected for single stride analysis and compared with data from 4 adults. In general, the proposed collective variables showed transitional forms over the first few months of running, indicating a relatively continuous change between the 2 gait forms. Coordination of the knee joint was very similar between gaits and across age, but the ankle joint was less consistent for both gaits in the infants. Relative stance and stride length data indicated that the children could not generate vertical and horizontal displacement. These findings echo those found in newly walking infants and suggest that similar rate-limiting parameters are present for both gaits.
546	dynamical	1991	ZESKIND, PS; GOFF, DM; MARSHALL, TR	RHYTHMIC ORGANIZATION OF NEONATAL HEART-RATE AND ITS RELATION TO ATYPICAL FETAL GROWTH	DEVELOPMENTAL PSYCHOBIOLOGY	The rhythmic organization underlying long-term heart rate variability was examined in 36 newborn infants. Heart rate was registered every 30 s for 2 continuous hr while infants rested in a temperature-controlled isolette. Spectrum analysis of the time-series of the 240 observations detected rhythmically organized changes in the heart rates of 33 of the 36 infants. Thirty of the 33 infants showed a basic rhythm at 1.5 +/- .5 cycles per hr (one cycle every 30 to 60 min). While 9 infants showed this single cycle in behavioral activity, 24 infants showed additional cycles at a wide range of faster frequencies. Infants with signs of atypical fetal growth less often showed evidence of these multiple cycles, had reliably fewer cycles in heart rate, and had a marginally lower power in their basic cycle than infants with typical patterns of fetal growth. Infants with multiple cycles in the power spectra, independent of fetal growth group, were more often observed in Alert and Active Alert behavioral states and less often in Active Sleep than comparison infants. Results indicate that 1) heart rates of newborn infants show evidence of the 30- to 60-min cycle characteristic of the Basic Rest-Activity Cycle found in other behaviors, and 2) the complexity of behavioral rhythms may be affected by prenatal malnutrition. Viewed within a dynamical systems approach to development, results suggest that the complexity of rhythms in behavior may reflect the complexity of behavioral organization.
547	dynamical	2012	Kostrubiec, V; Zanone, PG; Fuchs, A; Kelso, JAS	Beyond the blank slate: routes to learning new coordination patterns depend on the intrinsic dynamics of the learner-experimental evidence and theoretical model	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Using an approach that combines experimental studies of bimanual movements to visual stimuli and theoretical modeling, the present paper develops a dynamical account of sensorimotor learning, that is, how new skills are acquired and old ones modified. A significant aspect of our approach is the focus on the individual learner as the basic unit of analysis, in particular the quantification of predispositions and capabilities that the individual learner brings to the learning environment. Such predispositions constitute the learner's behavioral repertoire, captured here theoretically as a dynamical landscape("intrinsic dynamics"). The learning process is demonstrated to not only lead to a relatively permanent improvement of performance in the required task-the usual outcome-but also to alter the individual's entire repertoire. Changes in the dynamical landscape due to learning are shown to result from two basic mechanisms or "routes": bifurcation and shift. Which mechanism is selected depends the initial individual repertoire before new learning begins. Both bifurcation and shift mechanisms are accommodated by a dynamical model, a relatively straight forward development of the well-established HKB model of movement coordination. Model simulations show that although environmental or task demands may be met equally well using either mechanism, the bifurcation route results in greater stabilization of the to-be-learned-behavior. Thus, stability not (or not only) error is demonstrated to be the basis of selection, both of a new pattern of behavior and the path (smooth shift versus abrupt qualitative change) that learning takes. In line with these results, recent neurophysiological evidence indicates that stability is a relevant feature around which brain activity is organized while an individual performs a coordination task. Finally, we explore the consequences of the dynamical approach to learning for theories of biological change.
548	dynamical	2010	Gernigon, C; Briki, W; Eykens, K	The Dynamics of Psychological Momentum in Sport: The Role of Ongoing History of Performance Patterns	JOURNAL OF SPORT & EXERCISE PSYCHOLOGY	Borrowing the dynamical systems perspective, two studies aimed to examine the potential properties of nonlinearity and history dependence of psychological momentum. Male regional-level table tennis players were asked to empathize with players in a very important contest by watching two video scenarios of a table tennis game in two separate sessions. The videos presented two inverted scenarios in which score gaps gradually increased or decreased. Competitive anxiety, self-confidence (Study 1), and goal involvement states (Study 2) were measured before each point. Cognitive and somatic anxieties decreased linearly during the increasing scenario, but increased nonlinearly in the decreasing scenario. Mastery-avoidance goals decreased nonlinearly in the increasing scenario, increased nonlinearly in the decreasing scenario, and displayed a negative hysteresis pattern. These findings offer new insights into the dynamics of psychological momentum and suggest new avenues of research.
549	dynamical	2007	Camras, LA; Oster, H; Bakeman, R; Meng, ZL; Ujiie, T; Campos, JJ	Do infants show distinct negative facial expressions for fear and anger? Emotional expression in 11-month-old European American, Chinese, and Japanese infants	INFANCY	Do infants show distinct negative facial expressions for different negative emotions? To address this question, European American, Chinese, and Japanese 11-month-olds were videotaped during procedures designed to elicit mild anger or frustration and fear. Facial behavior was coded using Baby FACS, an anatomically based scoring system. Infants' nonfacial behavior differed across procedures, suggesting that the target emotions were successfully elicited. However evidence for distinct emotion-specific facial configurations corresponding to fear versus anger was not obtained. Although facial responses were largely similar across cultures, some differences also were observed. Results are discussed in terms of functionalist and dynamical systems approaches to emotion and emotional expression.
550	dynamical	2006	Hong, SL; Newell, KM	Change in the organization of degrees of freedom with learning	JOURNAL OF MOTOR BEHAVIOR	The authors examined the effects of learning on the change in the organization of the mechanical and dynamical degrees of freedom in 5 men who performed a ski-simulator task. A 3-dimensional analysis of the motion of the total-body center of mass and the segmental centers of mass (head, torso, thighs, and shanks) over practice showed that the recruitment of mechanical degrees of freedom was strongly influenced by anatomical and task constraints. Principal components analysis of the body segments' motions revealed that practice shifted their relative contributions but did not change the number of principal components. The present findings show that there can be independence in the patterns of change in the mechanical and dynamical degrees of freedom that arise from practice.
551	dynamical	1998	Clark, A	Time and mind	JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHY	0
552	dynamical	1996	Wagenaar, RC; vanEmmerik, REA	Dynamics of movement disorders	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	The expediency of the ecological and dynamical approaches to perception and action in the study of movement disorders is investigated in this special issue. Some theoretical assumptions of these approaches will be addressed and examples of its application in the field of movement disorders will be presented. The contributions in this special issue are aimed at improving diagnostics of pathological movement behavior in activities such as gait, posture as well as grasping and hitting objects. In this introduction the relevance of ecological and dynamical approaches to the treatment of movement disorders will be pinpointed as well. In particular, the role of 'discovery learning' and 'behavioral information' in relearning dynamics will be discussed.
553	dynamical	2012	Riley, MA; Shockley, K; Van Orden, G	Learning From the Body About the Mind	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In some areas of cognitive science we are confronted with ultrafast cognition, exquisite context sensitivity, and scale-free variation in measured cognitive activities. To move forward, we suggest a need to embrace this complexity, equipping cognitive science with tools and concepts used in the study of complex dynamical systems. The science of movement coordination has benefited already from this change, successfully circumventing analogous paradoxes by treating human activities as phenomena of self-organization. Therein, action and cognition are seen to be emergent in ultrafast symmetry breaking across the brain and body; exquisitely constituted of the otherwise trivial details of history, context, and environment; and exhibiting the characteristic scale-free signature of self-organization.
554	dynamical	2012	Wagenmakers, EJ; van der Maas, HLJ; Farrell, S	Abstract Concepts Require Concrete Models: Why Cognitive Scientists Have Not Yet Embraced Nonlinearly Coupled, Dynamical, Self-Organized Critical, Synergistic, Scale-Free, Exquisitely Context-Sensitive, Interaction-Dominant, Multifractal, Interdependent Brain-Body-Niche Systems	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	After more than 15 years of study, the 1/f noise or complex-systems approach to cognitive science has delivered promises of progress, colorful verbiage, and statistical analyses of phenomena whose relevance for cognition remains unclear. What the complex-systems approach has arguably failed to deliver are concrete insights about how people perceive, think, decide, and act. Without formal models that implement the proposed abstract concepts, the complex-systems approach to cognitive science runs the danger of becoming a philosophical exercise in futility. The complex-systems approach can be informative and innovative, but only if it is implemented as a formal model that allows concrete prediction, falsification, and comparison against more traditional approaches.
555	dynamical	2011	Spencer, JP; Perone, S; Buss, AT	Twenty Years and Going Strong: A Dynamic Systems Revolution in Motor and Cognitive Development	CHILD DEVELOPMENT PERSPECTIVES	This article reviews the major contributions of dynamic systems theory (DST) in advancing thinking about development, the empirical insights the theory has generated, and the key challenges for the theory on the horizon. The first section discusses the emergence of DST in developmental science, the core concepts of the theory, and the resonance it has with other approaches that adopt a systems metatheory. The second section reviews the work of Esther Thelen and colleagues, who revolutionized how researchers think about the field of motor development. It also reviews recent extensions of this work to the domain of cognitive development. Here, the focus is on dynamic field theory, a formal, neurally grounded approach that has yielded novel insights into the embodied nature of cognition. The final section proposes that the key challenge on the horizon is to formally specify how interactions among multiple levels of analysis and across multiple time scales create developmental change.
556	dynamical	2009	Renshaw, I; Davids, K; Shuttleworth, R; Chow, JY	Insights from Ecological Psychology and Dynamical Systems. Theory can underpin a philosophy of coaching	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	The aim of this paper is to show how principles of ecological psychology and dynamical systems theory can underpin a philosophy of coaching practice in a nonlinear pedagogy. Nonlinear pedagogy is based on a view of the human movement system as a nonlinear dynamical system and has been basically defined as the application Of concepts and tools Of nonlinear dynamics to coaching practice. A systems orientation is adopted to show bow nonlinear dynamical movement systems demonstrate at? openness to environmental information flows, use inherent degeneracy to adapt movements to dynamic environments, show capacity for self-organisation, and fluctuate between stability and instability as changes in constraints on performance shape transitions in system organisation. We demonstrate bow ibis perspective of the human movement system can aid understanding of motor learning processes and underpin practice for sports coaches. We provide a description of nonlinear pedagogy followed by a consideration of some of the fundamental principles of ecological psychology and dynamical systems theory that underpin it as a coaching philosophy. We illustrate bow each principle impacts on nonlinear pedagogical coaching practice, demonstrating how they can substantiate a framework for the coaching process.
557	dynamical	2005	Atchy-Dalama, P; Peper, CE; Zanone, PG; Beek, PJ	Movement-related sensory feedback mediates the learning of a new bimanual relative phase pattern	JOURNAL OF MOTOR BEHAVIOR	On the basis of findings emphasizing the role of perceptual consequences in movement coordination, the authors tested the hypothesis that the learning of a new bimanual relative phase pattern would involve the matching of the movement-related sensory consequences (rather than the motor outflow commands) to the to-be-learned pattern. Two groups of participants (n = 10 in each) practiced rhythmically moving their forearms with a phase difference of 30&DEG;. In 1 group, a difference in the arms' eigenfrequencies was imposed such that synchronous generation of the left and right motor commands resulted in the required relative phase (30&DEG;), yielding incongruence between the motor commands and their sensory consequences. In the other group, the experimenter imposed no eigen-frequency difference so that the sensory consequences were congruent with the motor commands. Throughout the practice period, performance of both groups was assessed repeatedly for the congruent situation (i.e., no eigenfrequency difference). On those criterion tests, both groups performed the required pattern equally well. The authors discuss that result, which corroborated the hypothesis, from a dynamical systems perspective.
558	dynamical	2001	Kenrick, DT	Evolutionary psychology, cognitive science, and dynamical systems: Building an integrative paradigm	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Cognitive science, evolutionary psychology, and dynamical systems theory have all been proposed as frameworks for linking the diverse subdisciplines of psychology with one another, and with other scientific disciplines. Traditional cognitive science focused on content-free general processing and deemphasized motivation. An evolutionary perspective emphasizes the centrality of motivational systems and the specificity of mechanisms designed to solve particular recurrent problems. The evolutionary perspective provides a set of broad general principles linking diverse behaviors in humans as well as other species. The dynamic approach seeks even broader principles, searching for emergent patterns in all complex systems, whether animate or inanimate. Natural selection is itself one such broad principle, as is the broader principle of self-organization, which helps explain dynamic equilibria found in groups of humans and in diverse species linked together within ecosystems. Proponents of the major contending interdisciplines will need to build more bridges if the dream of a unifying paradigm is to be realized. This review samples some of the reasons why evolutionary psychologists, dynamical systems theorists, and traditional cognitive scientists need one another.
559	dynamical	2000	Sternad, D	Debates in dynamics: A dynamical systems perspective on action and perception	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	Since the seminal publication by Kugler, Kelso and Turvey (1980), which formulated an agenda for understanding movement coordination based on the merging of Bernstein's insights and modern nonlinear dynamics, and since the classic results on phase transitions in rhythmic bimanual coordination the dynamical systems approach to action and perception has made considerable progress. The special issue collects research presented in a 3-day workshop "Debates in Dynamics" that portrays recent advances in the dynamical systems account to perception and action. As reflected in the wide spectrum of themes, the dynamical systems account has clearly diverged in the issues it addresses, in the levels of analysis, and in the formal concepts and tools it applies. without loosing its common thread of convergent assumptions and language. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
560	dynamical	1995	ZAAL, FTJM; BOOTSMA, RJ	THE TOPOLOGY OF LIMB DECELERATION IN PREHENSION TASKS	JOURNAL OF MOTOR BEHAVIOR	Whether a subject uses a constant tan-dot strategy to decelerate a reach to grasp an object is typically determined by performing a linear regression of tan onto real time to contact. This method has the disadvantage of requiring an assumption (on the part of the experimenter) concerning the endpoint targeted by the subject. In the present contribution, an alternative, topological method is proposed that makes use of a phase-plane representation of the movement. In two experiments, experimentally obtained movement trajectories were evaluated, using this new method, and the results were found to support the constant tan-dot strategy. At the same time, however, an alternative model, associated with dynamical systems theory was demonstrated to fit the data even better. It is argued that the topology of the phase plane suggests a softening spring description for a large part of the decelerative phase, followed by a final adjustment. Deterioration of the functionality of the adjustment made in this latter phase was observed when visual information was not available during movement execution.
561	dynamical	2015	Chervyakov, AV; Chemyavsky, AY; Sinitsyn, DO; Piradov, MA	Possible mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of transcranial magnetic stimulation	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is an effective method used to diagnose and treat many neurological disorders. Although repetitive TMS (rTMS) has been used to treat a variety of serious pathological conditions including stroke, depression, Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, pain, and migraines, the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the effects of long-term TMS remain unclear. In the present review, the effects of rTMS on neurotransmitters and synaptic plasticity are described, including the classic interpretations of TMS effects on synaptic plasticity via long-term potentiation and long-term depression. We also discuss the effects of rTMS on the genetic apparatus of neurons, glial cells, and the prevention of neuronal death. The neurotrophic effects of rTMS on dendritic growth and sprouting and neurotrophic factors are described, including change in brain-derived neurotrophic factor concentration under the influence of rTMS. Also, non-classical effects of TMS related to biophysical effects of magnetic fields are described, including the quantum effects, the magnetic spin effects, genetic magnetoreception, the macromolecular effects of TMS, and the electromagnetic theory of consciousness. Finally, we discuss possible interpretations of TMS effects according to dynamical systems theory. Evidence suggests that a rTMS-induced magnetic field should be considered a separate physical factor that can be impactful at the subatomic level and that rTMS is capable of significantly altering the reactivity of molecules (radicals). It is thought that these factors underlie the therapeutic benefits of therapy with TMS. Future research on these mechanisms will be instrumental to the development of more powerful and reliable TMS treatment protocols.
562	dynamical	2014	Palermos, SO	Loops, constitution, and cognitive extension	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	The 'causal-constitution' fallacy, the 'cognitive bloat' worry, and the persisting theoretical confusion about the fundamental difference between the hypotheses of embedded (HEMC) and extended (HEC) cognition are three interrelated worries, whose common point-and the problem they accentuate-is the lack of a principled criterion of constitution. Attempting to address the 'causal-constitution' fallacy, mathematically oriented philosophers of mind have previously suggested that the presence of non-linear relations between the inner and the outer contributions is sufficient for cognitive extension. The abstract idea of non-linearity, however, can be easily misunderstood and has, in the past, led to incorrect and counterintuitive conclusions about what may count as part of one's overall cognitive system. In order to prevent any further mistakes I revisit dynamical systems theory to study the nature of the continuous mutual interactions that give rise to the aforementioned non-linear relations. Moreover, focusing on these interactions will allow us to provide two distinct arguments in support of the ontological postulation of extended cognitive systems, as well as an objective criterion of constitution. Accordingly, I put forward a version of HEC that treats continuous mutual interactions (and the resultant non-linear relations) not just as sufficient but also as necessary for cognitive extension. Such a qualified version of HEC may exclude certain alleged cases of cognitive extension where the agent does not mutually interact with his artifacts (e. g., shopping lists and directory services), but it is immune both to the 'causal-constitution' fallacy and the 'cognitive bloat' worry, and it can be sharply distinguished from HEMC. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
563	dynamical	2014	Witherington, DC	Self-Organization and Explanatory Pluralism: Avoiding the Snares of Reductionism in Developmental Science	RESEARCH IN HUMAN DEVELOPMENT	Over the last 20 years, the concept of self-organization has played a central role in efforts to establish a relational metatheoretical approach to the study of development. Yet the notion of self-organization that predominates in scientific discussions today has undergone a conceptual narrowing relative to the broader use and interpretation of self-organization that characterized the biologically-oriented systems thinking of Weiss and von Bertalanffy and was grounded in Kant's teleological account of organisms as natural ends or purposes. In this article, the author discusses how our conceptual use of self-organization in developmental science has changed under the influence of nonlinear dynamical systems theory and how these changes could actually foster rather than discourage new forms of reductionism in our thinking about development.
564	dynamical	2012	Mesman, J; Oster, H; Camras, L	Parental sensitivity to infant distress: what do discrete negative emotions have to do with it?	ATTACHMENT & HUMAN DEVELOPMENT	Parental sensitivity, a crucial element of attachment theory, refers to the ability to correctly interpret and respond appropriately to infants' signals. The question of whether infants' emotional expressions communicate discrete negative emotions has been widely debated in the literature on infant emotional development, but it has rarely been discussed in the parental sensitivity literature. This article explores how insights from the parental sensitivity literature and from evolutionary and dynamical systems perspectives on infant emotion expressions can be brought together to enhance our understanding of parental responsiveness to infant distress. The current research concludes that sensitivity does not rely on reading discrete negative emotions in infant signals, but rather on an integration of complex, graded distress expressions with contextual factors and iterative interaction processes.
565	dynamical	2011	Kukona, A; Tabor, W	Impulse Processing: A Dynamical Systems Model of Incremental Eye Movements in the Visual World Paradigm	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The Visual World Paradigm (VWP) presents listeners with a challenging problem: They must integrate two disparate signals, the spoken language and the visual context, in support of action (e.g., complex movements of the eyes across a scene). We present Impulse Processing, a dynamical systems approach to incremental eye movements in the visual world that suggests a framework for integrating language, vision, and action generally. Our approach assumes that impulses driven by the language and the visual context impinge minutely on a dynamical landscape of attractors corresponding to the potential eye-movement behaviors of the system. We test three unique predictions of our approach in an empirical study in the VWP, and describe an implementation in an artificial neural network. We discuss the Impulse Processing framework in relation to other models of the VWP.
566	dynamical	2011	Camras, LA	Differentiation, Dynamical Integration and Functional Emotional Development	EMOTION REVIEW	In recent decades, considerable progress has been made in our understanding of emotional development. Yet no single current theory can fully encompass all of the empirical findings. Herein I propose that aspects of several theoretical approaches can be incorporated into a novel view that is informed by the dynamical systems perspective.
567	dynamical	2011	Stamovlasis, D	Nonlinear Dynamics and Neo-Piagetian Theories in Problem Solving: Perspectives on a New Epistemology and Theory Development	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS PSYCHOLOGY AND LIFE SCIENCES	In this study, an attempt is made to integrate Nonlinear Dynamical Systems theory and neo-Piagetian theories applied to creative mental processes, such as problem solving. A catastrophe theory model is proposed, which implements three neo-Piagetian constructs as controls: the functional M-capacity as asymmetry and logical thinking and the degree of field dependence-independence as bifurcation. Data from achievement scores of students in tenth grade physics' were analyzed using dynamic difference equations and statistical regression techniques. The cusp catastrophe model proved superior comparing to the pre-post linear counterpart and demonstrated nonlinearity at the behavioral level. The nonlinear phenomenology, such as hysteresis effects and bifurcation, is explained by an analysis, which provides a causal interpretation via the mathematical theory of self-organization and thus building bridges between NDS-theoty concepts and neo-Piagetian theories. The contribution to theory building is made, by also addressing the emerging philosophical, ontological and epistemological- questions about the processes of problem solving and creativity.
568	dynamical	2011	Jung, T; Polani, D; Stone, P	Empowerment for continuous agent-environment systems	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	This article develops generalizations of empowerment to continuous states. Empowerment is a recently introduced information-theoretic quantity motivated by hypotheses about the efficiency of the sensorimotor loop in biological organisms, but also from considerations stemming from curiosity-driven learning. Empowerment measures, for agent-environment systems with stochastic transitions, how much influence an agent has on its environment, but only that influence that can be sensed by the agent sensors. It is an information-theoretic generalization of joint controllability (influence on environment) and observability (measurement by sensors) of the environment by the agent, both controllability and observability being usually defined in control theory as the dimensionality of the control/observation spaces. Earlier work has shown that empowerment has various interesting and relevant properties, for example, it allows us to identify salient states using only the dynamics, and it can act as intrinsic reward without requiring an external reward. However, in this previous work empowerment was limited to the case of small-scale and discrete domains and furthermore state transition probabilities were assumed to be known. The goal of this article is to extend empowerment to the significantly more important and relevant case of continuous vector-valued state spaces and initially unknown state transition probabilities. The continuous state space is addressed by Monte Carlo approximation; the unknown transitions are addressed by model learning and prediction for which we apply Gaussian processes regression with iterated forecasting. In a number of well-known continuous control tasks we examine the dynamics induced by empowerment and include an application to exploration and online model learning.
569	dynamical	2008	Chialvo, DR	Emergent complexity: What uphill analysis or downhill invention cannot do	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In these notes we review emergent phenomena in complex systems, emphasizing ways to identify potential underlying universal mechanisms that generate complexity. The discussion focuses on the emergence of collective behavior in dynamical systems when they are poised near a critical point of a phase transition, either by tuning or by self-organization. We then present the rationale for our proposal that the brain is naturally poised near criticality and review recent results as well as the implications of this view of the functioning brain. (C) 2007 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
570	dynamical	2008	Sternad, D	Towards a unified theory of rhythmic and discrete movements - Behavioral, modeling and imaging results	COORDINATION: NEURAL, BEHAVIORAL AND SOCIAL DYNAMICS	Since the seminal paper on phase transitions in bimanual rhythmic movements, research from the dynamical systems perspective has given primacy to rhythmic coordination. While rhythmic movements are a ubiquitous and fundamental expression in biological behavior, non-rhythmic or discrete movements are of similar importance. In fact, rhythmic and discrete movements are commonly intertwined in complex actions. This review traces our strategy of extending a dynamic systems account from rhythmic to non-rhythmic behavior. Behavioral and modeling work on uni- and bimanual, single- and multijoint coordination increasingly investigated more complex movement tasks consisting of rhythmic and discrete elements. The modeling work suggested a three-tiered architecture consisting of a biomechanical, internal and parameter level with different responsibilities for different components of movement generation. A core question raised in the modeling is what are the fundamental units and principles that are tuned to make up complex behavior. Are rhythmic pattern generators the primitives for generating both rhythmic and non-rhythmic behaviors? Alternatively, are discrete pattern generators fundamental, or are there two primitives of action? fMRI experiments compared brain activation in continuously rhythmic and discrete movements. Significantly more activation in discrete movements suggested that discrete movements have higher control demands and may be distinct primitives, different from rhythmic movements. This result corresponds to the modeling work that highlighted that discrete movements require more parameterization. Our behavioral, modeling and imaging research built on and extended the dynamical systems approach to rhythmic coordination with the goal to develop a comprehensive framework to address complex everyday actions in a principled manner.
571	dynamical	2000	Yamamoto, Y; Gohara, K	Continuous hitting movements modeled from the perspective of dynamical systems with temporal input	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	The kinematics of continuously repeated forehand and backhand tennis strokes were measured and analyzed in terms of a dynamical system with temporal input. The tennis strokes were performed under two conditions: when the same input pattern was repeated and when two different input patterns were switched stochastically. The condition with the two periodic inputs revealed that there were two different trajectories in cylindrical space, while the condition with switching input induced transitions between these two trajectories, which were considered as excited attractors. The transitions between the two excited attractors were characterized by a fractal-like feature that could be described by a simple Canter set with rotation. This result suggests that continuous hitting movements have a hierarchical fractal structure, as was expected from the theory of dynamical systems with external temporal input. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V, All rights reserved, PsycINFO classification: 2300.
572	dynamical	1998	Keijzer, FA	Doing without representations which specify what to do	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	A discussion is going on in cognitive science about the use of representations to explain how intelligent behavior is generated. In the traditional view, an organism is thought to incorporate representations. These provide an internal model that is used by the organism to instruct the motor apparatus so that the adaptive and anticipatory characteristics of behavior come about. So-called interactionists claim that this representational specification of behavior raises more problems than it solves. In their view, the notion of internal representational models is to be dispensed with. Instead, behavior is to be explained as the intricate interaction between an embodied organism and the specific make up of an environment. The problem with a non-representational interactive account is that it has severe difficulties with anticipatory, future oriented behavior. The present paper extends the interactionist conceptual framework by drawing on ideas derived from the study of morphogenesis. This extended interactionist framework is based on an analysis of anticipatory behavior as a process which involves multiple spatio-temporal scales of neural, bodily and environmental dynamics. This extended conceptual framework provides the outlines for an explanation of anticipatory behavior without involving a representational specification of future goal states.
573	dynamical	1994	BOGARTZ, RS	THE FUTURE OF DYNAMIC-SYSTEMS MODELS IN DEVELOPMENTAL-PSYCHOLOGY IN THE LIGHT OF THE PAST	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL CHILD PSYCHOLOGY	A compact glance at the history and impact of mathematical models in development provides background for predicting the fate of dynamical systems modeling in developmental psychology.  Dynamic models are considered and the articles by Thelen and Ulrich (1991) and van Geert (1991) are summarized.  Deterministic and probabilistic models are compared and some cautions are presented along with a consideration of forms that can be attained by linear models in comparison to those well known in logistic difference models.  Reactions to the research by Rabinowitz, Grant, Howe, and Walsh; Kreindler and Lumsden; and Cooney and Troyer are given, with some concluding remarks on survival of dynamical systems modeling in developmental psychology.  (C) 1994 Academic Press, Inc.
574	dynamical	2014	Liu, JH; Onar, NF; Woodward, MW	Symbologies, technologies, and identities: Critical junctures theory and the multi-layered nation-state	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF INTERCULTURAL RELATIONS	Critical junctures theory draws from complexity theory/dynamical systems theory to investigate how ethnically, religiously and ideologically defined communities interact and coexist within and between states defined on the basis of Westphalian principles. States are theorized as dynamical political systems identified by three system parameters: (1) a symbology systems of symbolic meaning attached to and promoted by the state, (2) an identity space the groups and group identities that vie for legitimacy and control of state apparatuses, and (3) a set of technologies the institutions and technological means used by the state to maintain and reproduce itself. The system is thought to be located in an international political geography that provides initial starting conditions and system constraints. The system parameters are viewed as a family of variables rather than a single measure, and their operation is contingent upon specific actualizing conditions consistent with the philosophy of critical realism: this allows for both quantitative hypothesis-testing research and qualitative-hermeneutical work under a unified theoretical framework. The theory is illustrated by a Special Issue that spans historical case studies of Singapore and Turkey, history textbook analyses of the European Union, interviewing the institutional role of history teachers in transmitting Estonian national identity, the transformative ideological work of biblical narratives in Israeli state-building, and several papers that illustrate how social psychological phenomena can be located within the historical trajectories of evolving states. (c) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
575	dynamical	2011	Lopresti-Goodman, SM; Turvey, MT; Frank, TD	Behavioral dynamics of the affordance "graspable"	ATTENTION PERCEPTION & PSYCHOPHYSICS	On a daily basis, one perceives whether an object affords grasping with one hand or with both hands. In experiments in which differently sized objects of a fixed type have been presented, the transition from using one manual mode to the other has depended on both the ratio of object size to hand span and the presentation sequence-that is, size increasing versus decreasing. The transitions and their observed hysteresis (i.e., a transition ratio larger for the increasing sequence) can be accommodated by the order parameter dynamics typifying self-organizing systems. Here, we show that hysteresis magnitude depends on (a) the interaction between the attractors (one hand vs. two hands) and (b) the strength of the two-hands attractor. Through modeling and experimental results, we extend the investigation of affordance perception within dynamical-systems theory.
576	dynamical	2011	Glazier, P	Movement Variability in the Golf Swing: Theoretical, Methodological, and Practical Issues	RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT	0
577	dynamical	2010	Guastello, SJ	Nonlinear Dynamics of Team Performance and Adaptability in Emergency Response	HUMAN FACTORS	Objective: The impact of team size and performance feedback on adaptation levels and performance of emergency response (ER) teams was examined to introduce a metric for quantifying adaptation levels based on nonlinear dynamical systems (NDS) theory. Background: NDS principles appear in reports surrounding Hurricane Katrina, earthquakes, floods, a disease epidemic, and the Southeast Asian tsunami. They are also intrinsic to coordination within teams, adaptation levels, and performance in dynamic decision processes. Method: Performance was measured in a dynamic decision task in which ER teams of different sizes worked against an attacker who was trying to destroy a city (total N = 225 undergraduates). The complexity of teams' and attackers' adaptation strategies and the role of the opponents' performance were assessed by nonlinear regression analysis. Results: An optimal group size for team performance was identified. Teams were more readily influenced by the attackers' performance than vice versa. The adaptive capabilities of attackers and teams were impaired by their opponents in some conditions. Conclusion: ER teams should be large enough to contribute a critical mass of ideas but not so large that coordination would be compromised. ER teams used self-organized strategies that could have been more adaptive, whereas attackers used chaotic strategies. Applications: The model and results are applicable to ER processes or training maneuvers involving dynamic decisions but could be limited to nonhierarchical groups.
578	dynamical	2010	Deboeck, PR	Estimating Dynamical Systems: Derivative Estimation Hints From Sir Ronald A. Fisher	MULTIVARIATE BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH	The fitting of dynamical systems to psychological data offers the promise of addressing new and innovative questions about how people change over time. One method of fitting dynamical systems is to estimate the derivatives of a time series and then examine the relationships between derivatives using a differential equation model. One common approach for estimating derivatives, Local Linear Approximation (LLA), produces estimates with correlated errors. Depending on the specific differential equation model used, such correlated errors can lead to severely biased estimates of differential equation model parameters. This article shows that the fitting of dynamical systems can be improved by estimating derivatives in a manner similar to that used to fit orthogonal polynomials. Two applications using simulated data compare the proposed method and a generalized form of LLA when used to estimate derivatives and when used to estimate differential equation model parameters. A third application estimates the frequency of oscillation in observations of the monthly deaths from bronchitis, emphysema, and asthma in the United Kingdom. These data are publicly available in the statistical program R, and functions in R for the method presented are provided.
579	dynamical	1996	vanSantvoord, AAM; Beek, PJ	Spatiotemporal variability in cascade juggling	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	Three expert jugglers and three intermediate jugglers performed a three-ball cascade pattern under spatially and temporally constrained conditions. In the spatially constrained conditions the balls were thrown to a specific height, whereas in the temporally constrained conditions the balls were thrown to the beeps of a metronome. The experiment was conducted to examine the hypothesis that juggling represents a spatial clock in that jugglers attempt to set up an invariant time base for the hand movements by throwing the balls consistently to a fixed height. Specifically, two expectations following from this hypothesis were examined: (1) that the spatiotemporal variability of the produced patterns would be less when juggling to an externally specified height than to an externally specified beat, because throwing to a height would be more in line with what jugglers actually do, and (2) that in both conditions the space-time trajectories of the balls would be less variable than the space-time trajectories of the hands. Examination of the observed patterns in terms of a set of theoretically motivated variables confirmed the second expectation. At the level of the individual variables the first expectation was not confirmed by the data: the spatiotemporal variability of the patterns was very similar under the two conditions. However, at the level of ensemble variables, the variability of the ball loop time (defined as the time that the ball was carried by the hand plus the subsequent flight time) was smaller when juggling to a height than when juggling to a beat, while the variability of the hand loop time (defined as the time that the hand carried a ball plus the time that it moved empty) was the same. These results were largely independent of skill level; only a few differences between expert and intermediate jugglers were found. The implications of the findings with regard to the development of a theory of perceptual-motor control in which spatial and temporal variables are linked in a task-specific manner are discussed.
580	dynamical	2014	Richardson, MJ; Dale, R; Marsh, KL	Complex Dynamical Systems in Social and Personality Psychology Theory, Modeling, and Analysis	HANDBOOK OF RESEARCH METHODS IN SOCIAL AND PERSONALITY PSYCHOLOGY, SECOND EDITION	0
581	dynamical	2013	Deboeck, PR; Bergeman, CS	The Reservoir Model: A Differential Equation Model of Psychological Regulation	PSYCHOLOGICAL METHODS	Differential equation models can be used to describe the relationships between the current state of a system of constructs (e. g., stress) and how those constructs are changing (e. g., based on variable-like experiences). The following article describes a differential equation model based on the concept of a reservoir. With a physical reservoir, such as one for water, the level of the liquid in the reservoir at any time depends on the contributions to the reservoir (inputs) and the amount of liquid removed from the reservoir (outputs). This reservoir model might be useful for constructs such as stress, where events might "add up" over time (e. g., life stressors, inputs), but individuals simultaneously take action to "blow off steam" (e. g., engage coping resources, outputs). The reservoir model can provide descriptive statistics of the inputs that contribute to the "height" (level) of a construct and a parameter that describes a person's ability to dissipate the construct. After discussing the model, we describe a method of fitting the model as a structural equation model using latent differential equation modeling and latent distribution modeling. A simulation study is presented to examine recovery of the input distribution and output parameter. The model is then applied to the daily self-reports of negative affect and stress from a sample of older adults from the Notre Dame Longitudinal Study on Aging.
582	dynamical	2007	Goldfield, EC	A dynamical systems approach to infant oral feeding and dysphagia: From model system to therapeutic medical device	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	A dynamical systems approach to infant feeding problems is presented. A theoretically motivated analysis of coordination among sucking, swallowing, and breathing is at the heart of the approach. Current views in neonatology and allied medical disciplines begin their analysis of feeding problems with reference to descriptive phases of moving fluid from the mouth to the gut. By contrast, in a dynamical approach, sucking, swallowing, and breathing are considered as a synergy characterized by more or less stable coordination patterns. Research with healthy and at-risk groups of infants is presented to illustrate how coordination dynamics distinguish safe swallowing from patterns of swallowing and breathing that place premature infants at risk for serious medical problems such as pneumonia. Coordination dynamics is also the basis for a new medical device: a computer-controlled milk bottle that controls milk flow on the basis of the infant's coordination patterns. The device is designed so that infants may gradually take complete control of milk flow as they begin to discover the relation between swallowing and breathing.
583	dynamical	1998	Beer, RD	Framing the debate between computational and dynamical approaches to cognitive science	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	van Gelder argues that computational and dynamical systems are mathematically distinct kinds of systems. Although there are real experimental and theoretical differences between adopting a computational or dynamical perspective on cognition, and the dynamical approach has much to recommend it, the debate cannot be framed this rigorously. Instead, what is needed is careful study of concrete models to improve our intuitions.
584	dynamical	1997	Chua, R; Weeks, DJ	Dynamical explorations of compatibility in perception-action coupling	THEORETICAL ISSUES IN STIMULUS-RESPONSE COMPATIBILITY	The information processing framework has traditionally provided the empirical platform for the study of stimulus-response compatibility. In this chapter we outline how the principles and tools from a dynamical systems approach might broaden our understanding of compatibility phenomena. A key feature of our proposal is the examination of compatibility relations at a level of analysis appropriate for the study of coordination. We contend that, just as the study of compatibility has been used as a window into processes underlying translation and response selection, the study of dynamical compatibility may provide complementary insights into constraints on coordination. Preliminary experiments are presented that suggest the inclusion of dynamical stability as a defining feature of compatibility as a potential theoretical outcome.
585	dynamical	2015	Kiverstein, J; Miller, M	The embodied brain: towards a radical embodied cognitive neuroscience	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	In this programmatic paper we explain why a radical embodied cognitive neuroscience is needed. We argue for such a claim based on problems that have arisen in cognitive neuroscience for the project of localizing function to specific brain structures. The problems come from research concerned with functional and structural connectivity that strongly suggests that the function a brain region serves is dynamic, and changes over time. We argue that in order to determine the function of a specific brain area, neuroscientists need to zoom out and look at the larger organism-environment system. We therefore argue that instead of looking to cognitive psychology for an analysis of psychological functions, cognitive neuroscience should look to an ecological dynamical psychology. A second aim of our paper is to develop an account of embodied cognition based on the inseparability of cognitive and emotional processing in the brain. We argue that emotions are best understood in terms of action readiness (Frijda, 1986, 2007) in the context of the organism's ongoing skillful engagement with the environment (Rietveld, 2008: Bruineberg arid Rietveld, 2014, Kiverstein and Rietveld, 2015, forthcoming). States of action readiness involve the whole living body of the organism, and are elicited by possibilities for action in the environment that matter to the organism. Since emotion and cognition are inseparable processes in the brain it follows that what is true of emotion is also true of cognition. Cognitive processes are likewise processes taking place in the whole living body of an organism as it engages with relevant possibilities for action.
586	dynamical	2010	Siegler, IA; Bardy, BG; Warren, WH	Passive vs. Active Control of Rhythmic Ball Bouncing: The Role of Visual Information	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The simple task of bouncing a ball on a racket offers a model system for studying how human actors exploit the physics and information of the environment to control their behavior. Previous work shows that people take advantage of a passively stable solution for ball bouncing but can also use perceptual information to actively stabilize bouncing. In this article, we investigate (a) active and passive contributions to the control of bouncing, (b) the visual information in the ball's trajectory, and (c) how it modulates the parameters of racket oscillation. We used a virtual ball bouncing apparatus to manipulate the coefficient of restitution a and gravitational acceleration g during steady-state bouncing (Experiment 1) and sudden transitions (Experiment 2) to dissociate informational variables. The results support a form of mixed control, based on the half-period of the ball's trajectory, in which racket oscillation is actively regulated on every cycle in order to keep the system in or near the passively stable region. The mixed control mode may be a general strategy for integrating passive stability with active stabilization in perception action systems.
587	dynamical	2010	Cabelguen, JM; Ijspeert, A; Lamarque, S; Ryczko, D	Axial dynamics during locomotion in vertebrates: lesson from the salamander	BREATHE, WALK AND CHEW: THE NEURAL CHALLENGE: PART I	Much of what we know about the flexibility of the locomotor networks in vertebrates is derived from studies examining the adaptation of limb movements during stepping in various conditions. However, the body movements play important roles during locomotion: they produce the thrust during undulatory locomotion and they help to increase the stride length during legged locomotion. In this chapter, we review our current knowledge about the flexibility in the neuronal circuits controlling the body musculature during locomotion. We focus especially on salamander because, as an amphibian, this animal is able to display a rich repertoire of aquatic and terrestrial locomotor modes.
588	dynamical	2007	Teulier, C; Delignieres, D	The nature of the transition between novice and skilled coordination during learning to swing	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	The purpose of this study was to analyze the nature of the coordination evolution during the process of learning a gross motor skill. Participants had to learn to oscillate as smoothly as possible on an experimental swing during 10 sessions of 10 trials. Using tools and methods of dynamical systems theory, two qualitatively different coordination modes were observed during learning. The change from the novice behavior (characterized by a single forcing) to the skilled behavior (characterized by a dual forcing) was characterized by a period during which the two behaviors were used in alternation. In accordance with Newell's [Newell, K. M. (1991). Motor skill acquisition. Annual Review of Psychology, 42, 213-237] ideas, motor learning appears a non-linear process, and this non-linearity seems to have the form of a prolonged phase transition (like in a saddle-node bifurcation) which permits access to the skilled behavior. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
589	dynamical	2004	Dishion, TJ; Snyder, J	An introduction to the special issue on advances in process and dynamic system analysis of social interaction and the development of antisocial behavior	JOURNAL OF ABNORMAL CHILD PSYCHOLOGY	A thorough understanding of how social relationships contribute to child and adolescent trajectories for antisocial behavior may be facilitated by: ( a) ascertaining multiple relationship processes ( e. g., warmth and reciprocity, coercion and deviancy training); ( b) focusing on multiple relationships ( e. g., with parents, peers, siblings, and teachers); and ( c) assessing relationship processes using increasingly sophisticated measurement and theoretical models ( e. g., global ratings and sequential and dynamical systems analyses) of observed microsocial interaction. The reports comprising this special issue, and how they build on and advance previous research efforts, are described from this frame of reference.
590	dynamical	2003	Longstaff, MG; Heath, RA	The influence of motor system degradation on the control of handwriting movements: A dynamical systems analysis	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	The complex dynamics of the human hand/arm system need to be precisely controlled to produce fine movements such as those found in handwriting. This study employs dynamical systems analysis techniques to further understand how this system is controlled when it is functioning well and when it is compromised through motor function degradation (e.g. from tremor). Seven people with and 16 people without multiple sclerosis (MS) participated in this study. Tremor was assessed using spirography with participants being separated into "tremor" (6 people with and 1 person without MS; 2 male, 5 female; age range 40-68) and control (I person with and 15 people without MS; 5 male, 11 female, age range 18-59) groups. Participants wrote the pseudo-word "lanordam" six times on a digitizer, in a quiet as well as a noisy, mildly stressful environment. Velocity profiles of the pen tip for the best four trials were concatenated and analyzed to determine their dimensionality (a measure of the number of control variables) and Lyapunov exponents (a measure of predictability). Results indicate that the velocity profiles for people with tremor were lower dimensional and had less predictable dynamics than for controls, with no effect of sound condition. Interpreted in the context of related research, it was speculated that the lower dimensionality reflected the loss of control of variables related to the minimization of movement variability, resulting in less predictable movements. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
591	dynamical	2002	Tabor, W	The value of symbolic computation	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Standard generative linguistic theory, which uses discrete symbolic models of cognition, has some strengths and weaknesses. It is strong on providing a network of outposts that make scientific travel in the jungles of natural language feasible. It is weak in that it currently depends on the elaborate and unformalized use of intuition to develop critical supporting assumptions about each data point. In this regard, it is not in a position to characterize natural language systems in the lawful terms that ecological psychologists strive for. Connectionist learning models offer some help: They define lawful relations between linguistic environments and language systems. But our understanding of them is currently weak, especially when it comes to natural language syntax. Fortunately, symbolic linguistic analysis can help connectionism if the two meet via dynamical systems theory. I discuss a case in point: Insights from linguistic explorations of natural language syntax appear to have identified information structures that are particularly relevant to understanding ecologically appealing but analytically mysterious connectionist learning models.
592	dynamical	2000	Liao, MJ; Jagacinski, RJ	A dynamical systems approach to manual tracking performance	JOURNAL OF MOTOR BEHAVIOR	Manual Cracking performance was investigated from the perspective of dynamical systems theory. The authors manipulated the type of visual display, the control system dynamics, and the frequency of the sinusoidal input signal to examine couplings with various phases between the visual signal and control movements. Analyses of the system output amplitude ratio and relative phase showed that participants (N = 24) performed poorly with 90 degrees relative phase coupling. All the couplings became less stable as the movement frequency increased. The authors developed an adaptive oscillator model with linear damping to describe the coupled system consisting of the human performer, the visual display, and the control system dynamics. A. geometric account of the stability of performance at different relative phases is also presented.
593	dynamical	1998	Mandelblit, N; Zachar, O	The notion of dynamic unit: Conceptual developments in cognitive science	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We suggest ct common ground for alternative proposals in different domains of cognitive science which have previously seemed to have little in common. the underlying common theme is associated with a redefinition of the basic unit of analysis in each domain of thought. Our framework suggests ct definition of unity which is based not on inherent properties of the elements constituting the unit, but rather on dynamic patterns of correlation across the elements. We introduce a set of features that characterize the new dynamic units, and distinguish them from traditional units of analysis. A conceptual connection is made with the identification of elementary units in modern physics theories, as well as with concepts and structures in the study of complex dynamical systems and connectionism. The paper analyses the evolution of the concept of unit in different domains of thought in cognitive science, and examines the proposed framework of "dynamic unity" with regard to various theoretical problems within each domain. The particular cognitive science issues discussed in the paper include: (1) the binding problem in the brain; (2) the mental unit of conceptual organization; (3) defining 'wordhood' in linguistics; and (4) identifying the unit of cognition in the natural environment.
594	dynamical	2013	Seifert, L; Wattebled, L; L'Hermette, M; Bideault, G; Herault, R; Davids, K	Skill transfer, affordances and dexterity in different climbing environments	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	This study explored how skills in one region of a perceptual-motor landscape of performance, created in part by previous experience in rock climbing, can shape those that emerge in another region (ice climbing). Ten novices in rock climbing and five intermediate rock climbers were observed climbing an icefall. Locations of right and left ice tools and crampons were videotaped from a frontal camera. Inter-individual variability of upper and lower limb couplings and types of action regarding icefall properties were assessed by cluster hierarchical analysis, distinguishing three clusters. Pelvis vertical displacement, duration and number of pelvis pauses were also analyzed. Experienced rock climbers were grouped in the same cluster and showed the highest range and variability of limb angular locations and coordination patterns, the highest vertical displacement and the shortest pelvis plateaux durations. Non-fluent climbers (clusters 2 and 3) showed low range and variability of limb angular locations and coordination patterns. In particular, climbers of cluster 3 exhibited the lowest vertical displacement, the longest plateaux durations and the greatest ratio between tool swinging and definitive anchorage. Our results exemplified the positive influence of skills in rock climbing on ice climbing performance, facilitated by the detection of affordances from environmental properties. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
595	dynamical	2013	Lopresti-Goodman, SM; Turvey, MT; Frank, TD	Negative hysteresis in the behavioral dynamics of the affordance "graspable"	ATTENTION PERCEPTION & PSYCHOPHYSICS	One commonly perceives whether a visible object will afford grasping with one hand or with both hands. In experiments in which differently sized objects of a fixed type are presented, the transition from using one of these manual modes to the other depends on the ratio of object size to hand span and on the presentation sequence, with size increasing versus decreasing. Conventional positive hysteresis (i.e., a larger transition ratio for the increasing sequence) can be accommodated by the order parameter dynamics that typify self-organizing systems (Lopresti-Goodman, Turvey, and Frank, Attention, Perception, & Psychophysics 73: 1948-1965, 2011). Here we identified and addressed conditions of unconventional negative hysteresis (i.e., a larger transition ratio for the decreasing sequence). They suggest a second control parameter in the self-organization of affordance perception, one that is seemingly regulated by inhibitory dynamics occurring in the agent-task-environment system. Our experimental results and modeling extend the investigation of affordance perception within dynamical systems theory.
596	dynamical	2013	Briki, W; Den Hartigh, RJR; Markman, KD; Micallef, JP; Gernigon, C	How psychological momentum changes in athletes during a sport competition	PSYCHOLOGY OF SPORT AND EXERCISE	Objectives: The present research sought to examine changes in psychological momentum (PM) during sport competitions through the lens of a dynamical systems approach. Design: Male regional-level cyclists competed in cycling duels on home trainers. Method: Images of moving avatars of the cyclists were projected on a wall, and were manipulated so that one cyclist was exposed to an ascending performance scenario (i.e., positive momentum) and the other to a descending performance scenario (i.e., negative momentum). Every 3 min, the cyclists answered PM items by using a keyboard that was placed on the handlebars of their bicycles. Additionally, exerted power was continuously recorded. Results: Results revealed an asymmetrical critical boundary pattern for PM perceptions indicating that negative PM was triggered more easily than positive PM. Exerted power was generally higher during the negative momentum scenario than during the positive momentum scenario. In addition, exerted power slowly decreased over both momentum scenarios, and this decrease was faster at the very beginning of the negative momentum scenario. Conclusion: Results indicate that PM perceptions possess the dynamical properties of nonlinearity and history-dependence. Moreover, the finding that exerted power was higher in the negative momentum scenario was interpreted as a resistance behavior that occurs while experiencing negative momentum. The anticipated decreases in both exerted power and PM perceptions in the negative momentum scenario converge to support the notion that negative PM is a stronger attractor than positive PM. The present study confirms that PM is a dynamical phenomenon and offers fruitful avenues for future research. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
597	dynamical	2010	Stoltenberg, SF; Nag, P	Description and Validation of a Dynamical Systems Model of Presynaptic Serotonin Function: Genetic Variation, Brain Activation and Impulsivity	BEHAVIOR GENETICS	Despite more than a decade of empirical work on the role of genetic polymorphisms in the serotonin system on behavior, the details across levels of analysis are not well understood. We describe a mathematical model of the genetic control of presynaptic serotonergic function that is based on control theory, implemented using systems of differential equations, and focused on better characterizing pathways from genes to behavior. We present the results of model validation tests that include the comparison of simulation outcomes with empirical data on genetic effects on brain response to affective stimuli and on impulsivity. Patterns of simulated neural firing were consistent with recent findings of additive effects of serotonin transporter and tryptophan hydroxylase-2 polymorphisms on brain activation. In addition, simulated levels of cerebral spinal fluid 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (CSF 5-HIAA) were negatively correlated with Barratt Impulsiveness Scale (Version 11) Total scores in college students (r = -.22, p = .002, N = 187), which is consistent with the well-established negative correlation between CSF 5-HIAA and impulsivity. The results of the validation tests suggest that the model captures important aspects of the genetic control of presynaptic serotonergic function and behavior via brain activation. The proposed model can be: (1) extended to include other system components, neurotransmitter systems, behaviors and environmental influences; (2) used to generate testable hypotheses.
598	dynamical	2009	Coskun, H; Yilmaz, O	A new dynamical model of brainstorming: Linear, nonlinear, continuous (simultaneous) and impulsive (sequential) cases	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In this paper, we extended the linear dynamical model of [Brown, V., Paulus, P. B. (1996). A simple dynamic model of social factors in group brainstorming. Small Group Research, 27, 91-114] on two accounts. First, we modelled the sequential type brainstorming using impulsive differential equations by treating each category as an impulse and tested its validity in the two experiments that investigated and demonstrated the beneficial effects of sequential priming and memory in individual brainstorming. Finally, we considered the nonlinear case of brainstorming in writing or brainwriting where dyads exchanged their ideas in a written format and that eliminated negative factors occurring in oral brainstorming (e.g., evaluation apprehension, free-riding, production blocking) and enhanced the upward performance matching, and conducted the second experiment in order to test its validity in this paradigm with the effects of sequential priming and memory. Comparisons showed good agreement between results of experiments and those of the mathematical model. (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
599	dynamical	2009	Nishimoto, R; Tani, J	Development of hierarchical structures for actions and motor imagery: a constructivist view from synthetic neuro-robotics study	PSYCHOLOGICAL RESEARCH-PSYCHOLOGISCHE FORSCHUNG	The current paper shows a neuro-robotics experiment on developmental learning of goal-directed actions. The robot was trained to predict visuo-proprioceptive flow of achieving a set of goal-directed behaviors through iterative tutor training processes. The learning was conducted by employing a dynamic neural network model which is characterized by their multiple time-scale dynamics. The experimental results showed that functional hierarchical structures emerge through stages of developments where behavior primitives are generated in earlier stages and their sequences of achieving goals appear in later stages. It was also observed that motor imagery is generated in earlier stages compared to actual behaviors. Our claim that manipulatable inner representation should emerge through the sensory-motor interactions is corresponded to Piaget's constructivist view.
600	dynamical	2008	Izquierdo, E; Harvey, I; Beer, RD	Associative Learning on a Continuum in Evolved Dynamical Neural Networks	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	This article extends previous work on evolving learning without synaptic plasticity from discrete tasks to continuous tasks. Continuous-time recurrent neural networks without synaptic plasticity are artificially evolved on an associative learning task. The task consists in associating paired stimuli: temperature and food. The temperature to be associated can be either drawn from a discrete set or allowed to range over a continuum of values. We address two questions: Can the learning without synaptic plasticity approach be extended to continuous tasks? And if so, how does learning without synaptic plasticity work in the evolved circuits? Analysis of the most successful circuits to learn discrete stimuli reveal finite state machine (FSM) like internal dynamics. However, when the task is modified to require learning stimuli on the full continuum range, it is not possible to extract a FSM from the internal dynamics. In this case, a continuous state machine is extracted instead.
601	ecological	2009	Renshaw, I; Davids, K; Shuttleworth, R; Chow, JY	Insights from Ecological Psychology and Dynamical Systems. Theory can underpin a philosophy of coaching	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	The aim of this paper is to show how principles of ecological psychology and dynamical systems theory can underpin a philosophy of coaching practice in a nonlinear pedagogy. Nonlinear pedagogy is based on a view of the human movement system as a nonlinear dynamical system and has been basically defined as the application Of concepts and tools Of nonlinear dynamics to coaching practice. A systems orientation is adopted to show bow nonlinear dynamical movement systems demonstrate at? openness to environmental information flows, use inherent degeneracy to adapt movements to dynamic environments, show capacity for self-organisation, and fluctuate between stability and instability as changes in constraints on performance shape transitions in system organisation. We demonstrate bow ibis perspective of the human movement system can aid understanding of motor learning processes and underpin practice for sports coaches. We provide a description of nonlinear pedagogy followed by a consideration of some of the fundamental principles of ecological psychology and dynamical systems theory that underpin it as a coaching philosophy. We illustrate bow each principle impacts on nonlinear pedagogical coaching practice, demonstrating how they can substantiate a framework for the coaching process.
602	ecological	2004	Fuhrer, U	Cultivating Minds: Identity as Meaning-Making Practice	CULTIVATING MINDS: IDENTITY AS MEANING-MAKING PRACTICE	0
603	ecological	2002	Krippner, SC	Conflicting perspectives on Shamans and Shamanism: Points and counterpoints	AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST	Shamans' communities grant them privileged status to attend to those groups' psychological and spiritual needs. Shamans claim to modify their attentional states and engage in activities that enable them to access information not ordinarily attainable by members of the social group that has granted them shamanic status. Western perspectives on shamanism have changed and clashed over the centuries; this address presents points and counterpoints regarding what might be termed the demonic model, the charlatan model, the schizophrenia model, the soul flight model, the degenerative and crude technology model, and the deconstructionist model. Western interpretations of shamanism often reveal more about the observer than they do about the observed; in addressing this challenge, the study of shamanism could make contributions to cognitive neuroscience, social psychology, psychological therapy, and ecological psychology.
604	ecological	2001	Kulikowich, JM; Young, MF	Locating an ecological psychology methodology for situated action	JOURNAL OF THE LEARNING SCIENCES	We attempt to describe what a methodology for situated action should do for students given problem solving in school settings. Working from an ecological account of perception-action, we propose that a methodology for understanding situated action should afford the instructional designer (often the classroom teacher), the methodologist, and the problem solver opportunities to co-construct coupling dynamics that operate on multiple space and time scales including "real time." With this goal in mind, we propose the use of the Jasper Planning Assistant (JPA), an online learning and assessment system that becomes part of the design-learning-research situation and serves as a scaffold for the learner. Through analysis of log-file data produced by the JPA, we illustrate that a methodology for situated action should be neither a purely quantitative nor qualitative account, but rather an inscription-an emergent visualization of the coupling dynamics between a student and his or her environment. We conclude that ideally this emergent inscription should reveal the multiple space times in which problem solving is occurring, yet be reductive in such a way as to create affordances for future action: Methodology should have functional value.
605	ecological	2012	Gutkin, TB	Ecological Psychology: Replacing the Medical Model Paradigm for School-Based Psychological and Psychoeducational Services INTRODUCTION	JOURNAL OF EDUCATIONAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL CONSULTATION	Traditional medical model service delivery systems have facilitated the creation of nationwide mental health and education pandemics for children and youth. The characteristics and shortcomings of medical model approaches leading to these problems are explicated, including the focus of services on individuals rather than populations, relying almost exclusively on remediation rather than prevention and early intervention, unintentionally creating a severe shortage of service providers, and providing treatments that lack sufficient efficacy. An ecological model of human behavior and service delivery is presented as an alternative that embodies the potential to address these problems and successfully address the mental health and education pandemics we currently face. It is concluded that a paradigm shift toward an ecological model is both essential and long overdue.
606	ecological	1993	COSTALL, A	BEYOND LINEAR PERSPECTIVE - A CUBIST MANIFESTO FOR VISUAL SCIENCE	IMAGE AND VISION COMPUTING	Both James Gibson's ecological approach to vision and recent research in computer vision have challenged linear perspective as the foundation for understanding either vision or pictures. There is a gro wing appreciation of the diversity of informative structures available to perceivers, and of the fact that many of these structures are not tied to any single viewpoint. The convergences between these approaches are explored with reference to the existing research on picture perception and production.
607	ecological	2009	Kono, T	Social Affordances and the Possibility of Ecological Linguistics	INTEGRATIVE PSYCHOLOGICAL AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE	This paper includes an effort to extend the notion of affordance from a philosophical point of view the importance of ecological approach for social psychology, ethics, and linguistics. Affordances are not always merely physical but also interpersonal and social. I will conceptualize affordance in general and social affordance in particular, and will elucidate the relation between intentional action and affordances, and that between affordances and free will. I will also focus on the relation between social institution and affordance. An extended theory of affordances can provide a way to analyze in concrete ways how social institution works as an implicit background of interpersonal interactions. Ecological approach considers social institution as the producer and maintainer of affordances. Social institutions construct the niches for human beings. Finally, I will argue the possibility of the ecological linguistics. Language is a social institution. The system of signs is the way to articulate and differentiate interpersonal affordances. Language acquires its meaning, i.e. communicative power in the interpersonal interactions, and interpersonal interactions, in turn, develop and are elaborated through the usage of signs. Communication is seen as never aimed to transmit inner ideas to others, but to guide and adjust the behaviors of others thorough articulating the affordance of responsible-ness.
608	ecological	2009	Oudejans, RRD; Nieuwenhuys, A	Perceiving and moving in sports and other high-pressure contexts	MIND AND MOTION: THE BIDIRECTIONAL LINK BETWEEN THOUGHT AND ACTION	From an ecological psychological perspective, the current chapter discusses the influence of anxiety on the perception, selection, and realization of affordances in sports and other high-pressure contexts, particularly police work. Drawing on recent developments in the anxiety-performance literature (i.e., the attentional control theory) the authors' experimental work on the impact of anxiety on perceptual-motor performance is described. Furthermore, several experiments showing positive effects of training with anxiety on performance under pressure are discussed. We argue that through reality-based training with anxiety, processes that underlie performance might be recalibrated to the new task constraints, thereby preventing a degradation of eventual performance in stressful situations.
609	ecological	2000	Chemero, A	What events are	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Stoffregen's (this issue) target article reminds us of many things about affordances and events, but it also argues for points that cannot be maintained. In particular, Stoffregen argues that animals do not perceive events. This result, if it turned out to be true, would create widespread consequences for ecological psychology. I argue that Stoffregen is incorrect: We do perceive events. To see that this is the case, however, requires a new conceptualization of events in which events are not merely changes in the physical surrounds of an animal; instead, events are taken to be changes in the layout of affordances of the animal-environment system. Some consequences of this conception of affordances are sketched.
610	ecological	1998	Summers, JJ	Has ecological psychology delivered what it promised?	MOTOR BEHAVIOR AND HUMAN SKILL: A MULTIDISCIPLINARY APPROACH	0
611	ecological	1997	Shaw, RE; Effken, JA; Fajen, BR; Garrett, SR; Morris, A	An ecological approach to the on-line assessment of problem-solving paths: Principles and applications	INSTRUCTIONAL SCIENCE	In this paper, we propose a theoretical framework for designing on-line situated assessment tools for multimedia instructional systems. Based on an ecological psychology approach to situated learning, a graph theoretic methodology is applied to monitor students' performance (solution paths) throughout the learning activity. Deviation of the student's path from the target (expert) path generates indicators which can function as alerts to the student and to the instructor. The information collected in the dribble files and presented visually enables the instructor to identify problems quickly and intervene appropriately. The feasibility of the methodology is explored in case studies describing three instructional systems that teach (1) critical thinking and problem-solving skills, (2) principles of hemodynamic monitoring and treatment, and (3) orthodontic treatment, respectively.
612	ecological	1995	DEJONG, HL	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY AND NATURALISM	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	In this paper, Gibson's ecological approach to perception is discussed as belonging to the tradition of naturalist psychology, which focuses on the adaptive role of the perceptual system, and which includes (assumptions about) the structure of the ecological environment in theories of perception. As such, naturalism contrasts with the sensation-based tradition in perception, which is implicitly solipsist in ignoring the distal object, and restricts itself to local causal effects in the senses and subsequent cognitive processing. It is shown that Gibson's work shows traces of his contacts with Heider and Brunswik, and that Marr explicitly picks up (and sometimes criticizes) key elements of Gibson's work. Heider, Gibson and Marr are interpreted as naturalists in their emphasis on the role of the environment as a separate and irreducible level of explanation in theories of perception.
613	ecological	2013	Tweed, C	Socio-technical issues in dwelling retrofit	BUILDING RESEARCH AND INFORMATION	Although a wide range of technical solutions exist to reduce energy consumption and CO2 emissions, these may not produce the predicted savings if occupants operate the refurbished dwelling in unexpected ways, resulting in a performance gap'. Retrofit can be approached as a set of socio-technical issues. Social practice theory is the dominant approach in socio-technical studies of energy in the home. However, other ways can investigate how people engage with and experience their home environments, including their interaction with energy technologies. This can extend the reach of socio-technical studies to encompass personal experience of reconfigured homes within the broader socio-cultural context. Methodologies from phenomenology and ecological psychology used in architecture and philosophy of technology - principally the concepts of breakdown' and affordance - can examine occupants' experience of a retrofitted environment. An energy retrofit of an occupied dwelling is used to illustrate how such methods can provide insights into occupants' experience of and responses to refurbishment. It is suggested that householders' energy and comfort concerns emerge and recede alongside other concerns in both time and space as they adjust to their reconfigured home. Changing affordances after retrofit can influence how people use dwelling space in ways that have energy consumption consequences.
614	ecological	2011	Hart, S; Grupen, R	Learning Generalizable Control Programs	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTONOMOUS MENTAL DEVELOPMENT	In this paper, we present a framework for guiding autonomous learning in robot systems. The paradigm we introduce allows a robot to acquire new skills according to an intrinsic motivation function that finds behavioral affordances. Affordances-in the sense of (Gibson, Toward and Ecological Psychology, Hillsdale, NJ, 1977)-describe the latent possibilities for action in the environment and provide a direct means of organizing functional knowledge in embodied systems. We begin by showing how a robot can assemble closed-loop action primitives from its sensory and motor resources, and then show how these primitives can be sequenced into multi-objective policies. We then show how these policies can be assembled hierarchically to support incremental and cumulative learning. The main contribution of this paper demonstrates how the proposed intrinsic motivator for affordance discovery can cause a robot to both acquire such hierarchical policies using reinforcement learning and then to generalize these policies to new contexts. As the framework is described, its effectiveness and applicability is demonstrated through a longitudinal learning experiment on a bimanual robot.
615	ecological	2009	Morris, EK	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY IN CONTEXT	JOURNAL OF THE EXPERIMENTAL ANALYSIS OF BEHAVIOR	Relations between behavior analysis and ecological psychology have been strained for years, notwithstanding the occasional comment on their affinities. Harry Heft's (2001) Ecological Psychology in Context provides an occasion for reviewing anew those relations and affinities. It describes the genesis of ecological psychology in James's radical empiricism; addresses Holt's neorealism and Gestalt psychology; and synthesizes Gibson's ecological psychology and Barker's ecobehavioral science as a means for understanding everyday human behavior. Although behavior analysis is excluded from this account, Heft's book Warrants a review nonetheless: It describes ecological psychology in ways that. are Congruent. and complementary with behavior analysis (e.g., nonmediational theorizing; the provinces of natural history and natural science). After introducing modern ecological psychology, I comment on (a) Heft's admirable, albeit selective, historiography; (b) his ecological psychology-past and present-as it relates to Skinner's science and System (e.g., affordances, molar behavior); (c) his misunderstandings of Skinner's behaviorism (e.g., reductionistic, mechanistic, molecular); and (d) the theoretical status of Heft's cognitive terms and talk (i.e., in ontology, epistemology, syntax). I conclude by considering the alliance and integration of ecological psychology and behavior analysis, and their implications for unifying and transforming psychology as a life science, albeit more for the future than at present.
616	ecological	1999	McMorris, T	Cognitive development and the acquisition of decision-making skills	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	This paper sets out to examine what theory and research into cognitive development can tell tts about what types of decision-making skills we should teach at any given age. Piagetian, Information Processing, and ecological psychology theories of cognitive development ave discussed and empirical data is examined. It is concluded that, because of individual differences in the rare of cognitive development, if is not possible to provide definitive chronological ages at which different aspects of decision making should be taught. However it is recommended that the teaching of decision making should follow Piagetian stages regardless of chronological age, and that deliberate practice is beneficial to the development of decision making skills. It is also concluded, that there is a need for much move empirical research, particularly examining individual differences and the interaction between cognitive, socioemotional, and physical development. Finally, there is, also, a need for longitudinal studies and the use of research designs that ave ecologically valid.
617	ecological	1997	Young, MF; Kulikowich, JM; Barab, SA	The unit of analysis for situated assessment	INSTRUCTIONAL SCIENCE	We begin with a discussion of contemporary approaches to assessment highlighting their reliance on a static, linear model of knowledgeable performance. Next we describe an ecological psychology approach to problem solving. Then, we propose the adoption of an agent-environment interaction as the unit of analysis. We continue by describing the problem-solving process from an ecological psychology perspective, to clarify the ''intentional unit''. We close with a discussion of functional validity, the value added by access to assessment information during the problem-solving process.
618	ecological	2010	Withagen, R; van Wermeskerken, M	The Role of Affordances in the Evolutionary Process Reconsidered A Niche Construction Perspective	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	Gibson asserted that affordances are the primary objects of perception. Although this assertion is especially attractive when considered in the context of evolutionary theory, the role that affordances play in the evolution of animals' perceptual and action systems is still unclear. Trying to combine the insights of both Gibson and Darwin, Reed developed a selectionist view in which affordances are conceived as resources that exert selection pressures, giving rise to animals equipped with action systems. Reed's advocacy of selectionism, however, has been criticized on several grounds, among which is an inconsistency with recent trends in evolutionary thinking. Current developments in evolutionary biology indeed ask for a reconsideration of the role of affordances in the evolution of perceptual and action systems. Adopting a niche construction perspective, we reexamine the role of affordances in the evolutionary process. It is argued that affordances and their utilization, destruction, and creation are central elements in evolutionary dynamics. The implications for ecological psychology and evolutionary theory are explored.
619	ecological	1999	Grassl, W	The reality of brands: Towards an ontology of marketing	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF ECONOMICS AND SOCIOLOGY	The ontology of marketing, particularly the question of what products and brands are, is still largely unexplored. The ontological status of brands hinges on their relationship with products. Idealists about brands see perceptual or cognitive acts of consumers grouped under the heading 'brand awareness' or 'brand image' as constitutive for the existence of brands so that, in their view, tools of the marketing mix can influence relevant mental dispositions and attitudes. Brand realists, on the other hand, reject the view of brands as mere marks or names and interpret them as emergent products with properties that afford branding in the sense of Gibson's ecological psychology. Brand strength is a function of the degree to which brands occupy defensible niches in product space. Branding as a process involves changing external or internal boundaries of products. Several arguments are proposed in favor of brand realism. The fragments of an ontology of marketing are developed in a broadly Aristotelian framework. Brand realism has significant implications for a new understanding of issues ranging from the effects of advertising to financial brand valuation, the nature of trademarks, and-marketing strategy in general. It permits one to treat brand equity as a real phenomenon not dependent on associations, attitudinal states such as brand loyalty, or spurious constructs such as brand character or personality.
620	ecological	1995	RIZZO, TA; CORSARO, WA	SOCIAL SUPPORT PROCESSES IN EARLY-CHILDHOOD FRIENDSHIP - A COMPARATIVE-STUDY OF ECOLOGICAL CONGRUENCES IN ENACTED SUPPORT	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF COMMUNITY PSYCHOLOGY	Examined congruences between children's friendships and classroom social ecologies in three distinct settings, and poses that such congruences or social adaptations are aptly characterized as a process of enacted social support; i.e., an interpersonal transaction involving the reduction or evasion of stress. Data were derived from Corsaro's recent ethnographics of children's friendship and peer culture in a University Preschool (Corsaro, 1985) and Head Start center (Corsaro, 1994), and from Rizzo's (1989) ethnography of friendship development among first-grade children. Despite vast differences across settings, the nature and activities of children's friendships appeared consistently linked with specific organizational features in their life-worlds and in this way may constitute significant interpersonal and individual adaptations to that world. In this view, friendship is best seen not as a static entity which children appropriate in a consistent fashion, but as a general and malleable concept which they modify and use in a collaborative fashion to address shared psychosocial concerns. Findings are related to research on the link between perceived and enacted support, and on the interplay between relational and social support processes.
621	ecological	1992	KREPPNER, K	STERN,WILLIAM,L., 1871-1938 - A NEGLECTED FOUNDER OF DEVELOPMENTAL-PSYCHOLOGY	DEVELOPMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	William Stern was born in 1871 in Berlin, Germany, and died in 1938 in Durham, North Carolina.  Educated at Berlin University, he developed very early a theoretical view to overcome the fundamental split in the academic psychology of his time, that between elementarism and wholism on the one hand and environmentalism and nativism on the other.  Besides inventing such well-known concepts as IQ, differential psychology, and the nomothetic-idiographic approach, Stern put much effort into developing a personalistic psychology that emphasized both the individual's active role and the importance of context in development.  This article focuses on Stern's main contributions to developmental psychology:  the activity-reactivity tension in the developing individual; the concept of proximal space, Stern's idea of the location of exchange between the person and the environment; and an alternative conception of children's egocentrism.  Parallels to today's concepts are drawn.
622	ecological	2003	Chemero, A; Klein, C; Cordeiro, W	Events as changes in the layout of affordances	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In a target article that appeared in Ecological Psychology, Stoffregen (2000a) questioned the possibility of ecological event perception research. This article describes experiments performed to examine the perception of the disappearance of gap-crossing affordances, a variety of event as defined by Chemero (2000). We found that participants reliably perceive both gap-crossing affordances and the disappearance of gap-crossing affordances. Our findings provide empirical evidence in favor of understanding events as changes in the layout of affordances, shoring up event perception research in ecological psychology.
623	ecological	1997	Ingvaldsen, RP; Whiting, HTAJ	Modern views on motor skill learning are not 'representative'!	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	Approaches to the explanation of (motor) behaviour deriving from basic Cybernetic principles are contrasted with that based on Skinner's principle of operant conditioning. The reliance of the former on systems of representation (comparators, transducers, schemas etc.), not open to observation, is shown to give rise to a number of theoretical and applied problems. While Skinner's approach is shown to avoid such assumptions it is, in turn? limited in the explanations it provides for behavioural change by its undue emphasis on why things are done at the expense of how they are done. It is argued that recent developments in Ecological Psychology, particularly dynamical systems approaches, provide novel solutions to the question of how things are done but, in so doing, lose track of the why. In spite of the limitations of either perspective on its own, there does seem to be sufficient (fundamental) communality and complementarity to provide the basis for a rapprochement that can lead to a better understanding of behaviour in general and motor behaviour in particular. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.
624	ecological	2012	Gresalfi, M; Barnes, J; Cross, D	When does an opportunity become an opportunity? Unpacking classroom practice through the lens of ecological psychology	EDUCATIONAL STUDIES IN MATHEMATICS	Drawing on ecological psychology, this paper considers how student engagement is an accomplishment of the classroom system. Specifically, this paper presents an analysis of two teachers and their students who were using a project-based unit in their mathematics classes. The two teachers used identical curricular materials, but had dramatically different personal histories of teaching and different instructional practices. Our goal is to investigate the role of the teacher in supporting student engagement by considering the kinds of opportunities to learn that were presented by the teacher, and the relationship between those opportunities to learn and the ways their students engaged. Pragmatically, this paper contributes to our understanding of how teachers' framing of activity significantly impacts the ways that students are likely to engage tasks. Theoretically, this paper highlights the interactional nature of learning, with the goal of clarifying why learning is not simply an individual accomplishment.
625	ecological	2007	Baron, RM	Situating coordination and cooperation between ecological and social psychology	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	The major thrust of this analysis is to demonstrate the value of making ecological psychology more social while recognizing that for this to occur, social psychology must become more ecological in the sense that its key concepts must be treated in an embodied manner. I elaborate these propositions by focusing on establishing differences between coordination and cooperation. I then explore a range of relationships between them from a social psychological perspective. To accomplish this integration, which uses the commitment to reciprocity as a joint organizing principle, I use three complementary models-dynamical systems, effectivities-affordances, and a role-rule model of social commitment. Key aspects of the analysis involve (1) elaborating the meaning of Turvey's (1990) proper-relations view of coordination and (2) demonstrating the particular relevance of roles and trust as unifying concepts. From this perspective, coordinations occur between roles, rather than individuals, at the level of team play. Team play, in turn, is shown to depend on trust. And trust, in turn, is related to perceptions of dependability, thereby illustrating a critical intersection of ecological and social psychology.
626	ecological	2005	Scott, MM	A powerful theory and a paradox - Ecological psychologists after barker	ENVIRONMENT AND BEHAVIOR	Roger Barker, influenced by Lewin, developed a powerful theory in psychology, behavior setting theory. Paradoxically, this theory is still not widely known or understood in mainstream American psychology. Oral histories of the core group who worked with Barker were collected and examined to determine influences on them and subsequent directions in the field of ecological psychology in an attempt to understand this paradox. Three clusters of factors emerged. Behavior setting theory has been affirmed in a number of places, including other behavioral sciences, but has not as yet moved into mainstream psychology, although there are some indications that the theory is moving in that direction. These directions as well as barriers are discussed.
627	ecological	2004	De Laplante, K	Toward a more expansive conception of ecological science	BIOLOGY & PHILOSOPHY	There are two competing conceptions of the nature and domain of ecological science in the popular and academic literature, an orthodox conception and a more expansive conception. The orthodox conception conceives ecology as a natural biological science distinct from the human social sciences. The more expansive conception views ecology as a science whose domain properly spans both the natural and social sciences. On the more expansive conception, non-traditional ecological disciplines such as "ecological psychology", " ecological anthropology" and " ecological economics" may legitimately be regarded as sub-disciplines of ecology, and the practitioners of such disciplines as ecologists. The orthodox-expansionist issue is significant both for the practice of ecology and for the self-identity of the philosophy of ecology. I argue in favour of the expansionist conception of ecology on general conceptual grounds, and by developing the case for one particular non-traditional ecological discipline, ecological psychology.
628	ecological	2004	Holmes, JG	The benefits of abstract functional analysis in theory construction: The case of interdependence theory	PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	In this article I argue for the benefits of an abstract functional analysis in theory construction, suggesting that tin understanding of the nature of situations of interdependence will provide theoretical insights into basic processes in interpersonal relations. That is, mechanisms and basic processes such as social cognition are best understood by describing their functional relation to the social problems with which they were designed to cope, rather than studying them in their own right in isolation from the purpose they serve. I discuss the tenets of ecological psychology, the scientific philosophy underpinning this way of thought. I then link this approach to the development of my own theoretical ideas on trust in close relationships, providing a description of how a functional analysis rooted in the assumptions of interdependence theory shaped the questions I posed and the answers to which I was drawn.
629	ecological	2002	Ruble, LA; Scott, MM	Executive functions and the natural habitat behaviors of children with autism	AUTISM	Research suggests that impairments in executive functions play a role in the cognitive deficit in autism. Possible autism-specific impairments include an inability to engage in goal-directed behaviors and adjust behaviors given environmental demands. What has been described as executive functions is based largely on observations of performance in the laboratory rather than in natural settings. An ecological method first described by Barker and Wright and adapted by Scott was used to assess the patterns of goal-directed behaviors of eight children with autism and eight chronological and mental age comparable children with Down syndrome. Quantitative and qualitative features of naturalistic behaviors were collected, and coded using previously described categories of children's behavior. Results indicated that children with autism exhibited shorter and less overlapping goal-directed behaviors. These data suggest a cognitive difference rather than developmental delay, and lend support for impaired executive functions in autism. Practical implications for educators and caregivers are discussed.
630	ecological	1988	LANG, A	PSYCHOLOGYS NEED FOR THE COPERNICAN TURN - TOWARDS AN ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY OF DEVELOPMENT	SCHWEIZERISCHE ZEITSCHRIFT FUR PSYCHOLOGIE-REVUE SUISSE DE PSYCHOLOGIE	0
631	ecological	1979	GREENBERG, CI	TOWARD AN INTEGRATION OF ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL-PSYCHOLOGY - UNDERMANNING THEORY, ORGANIZATION SIZE, AND JOB-ENRICHMENT	ENVIRONMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY AND NONVERBAL BEHAVIOR	0
632	ecological	2013	Chemero, A	Radical Embodied Cognitive Science	REVIEW OF GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper briefly introduces radical embodied cognitive science (RECS) and places it in historical perspective. Radical embodied cognitive science is an interdisciplinary approach to psychology that combines ideas from the phenomenological tradition with ecological psychology and dynamical systems modeling. It is argued that radical embodied cognitive science has a long history; it is as a direct descendent of the Jamesian functionalist approach to psychology. This approach to psychology is contrasted with the current trend of supplementing standard cognitive psychology with occasional references to the body, in contrast with these trends, radical embodied cognitive science is skeptical of the explanatory usefulness of mental representations. The future prospects of radical embodied cognitive science and the broader functionalist framework are discussed.
633	ecological	2012	Diaz, A; Barrientos, A; Jacobs, DM; Travieso, D	Action-contingent vibrotactile flow facilitates the detection of ground level obstacles with a partly virtual sensory substitution device	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	This research considers a sensory substitution device that allows the exploration of the environment through normal walking, leaning and standing. The device includes an array of 24 coin motors placed vertically on the torso, with the intensity of vibration of each motor being a function of the distance to the first-encountered object. Thresholds were determined for the detection of ground-level obstacles (raised target platforms). On average, blindfolded participants were able to detect platforms with heights of 9 to 17 cm, but the thresholds differed for different experimental conditions. Experiment 1 showed that the detection threshold is lower for use with exploratory movements than for use without exploratory movements. Experiments 2 and 3 compared dynamic groups, who made exploratory movements and received vibrotactile flow contingent on their movements, with yoked groups, who received the same vibrotactile flow as the dynamic groups independently of their own movements. The detection thresholds were lower for the dynamic groups than for the yoked groups, meaning that the contingency of vibrotactile flow on exploratory movements is important beyond a higher-order vibrotactile flow by itself. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
634	ecological	2011	Stelma, J	An ecological model of developing researcher competence: the case of software technology in doctoral research	INSTRUCTIONAL SCIENCE	This paper presents an ecological model of developing researcher competence, with a particular focus on doctoral students' use of research software. The model extends on theoretical work done by Young et al. (Instructional Science 30(1): 47-63, 2002), modelling the intentional dynamics of technological learning contexts. The development of the ecological model is linked to existing ways of understanding the doctoral experience. This includes the recent emphasis on pedagogy and learning, as well as different conceptualisations of context. The experiences of three doctoral student informants are used to exemplify aspects of the ecological model. A description of an e-learning resource, designed to support Education doctoral students' use of research software, illustrates a concrete pedagogical contribution of the model. The paper concludes with a more general discussion of contributions of the model to the field of ecological psychology and the literature on doctoral education.
635	ecological	2011	Withagen, R; Caljouw, SR	Aging affects attunement in perceiving length by dynamic touch	ATTENTION PERCEPTION & PSYCHOPHYSICS	Earlier studies have revealed age-dependent differences in perception by dynamic touch. In the present study, we examined whether the capacity to learn deteriorates with aging. Adopting an ecological approach to learning, the authors examined the process of attunement-that is, the changes in what informational variable is exploited. Young and elderly adults were trained to perceive the lengths of unseen, handheld rods. It was found that the capacity to attune declines with aging: Contrary to the young adults, the elderly proved unsuccessful in learning to detect the specifying informational variables. The fact that aging affects the capacity to attune sets a new line of research in the study of perception and perceptual-motor skills of elderly. The authors discuss the implications of their findings for the ongoing discussions on the ecological approach to learning.
636	ecological	2011	Fowler, CA; Hodges, BH	Dynamics and Languaging: Toward an Ecology of Language	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	We introduce the second of 2 special issues of Ecological Psychology that present papers from a conference, "Grounding Language in Perception and (Inter) action," held at Gordon College in June 2009. The articles in this issue situate the study of language use in two kinds of context that are central to an understanding of "languaging" activities in the social settings in which they occur. The first is the context of dynamical systems theory. Wallot and Van Orden show how a dynamical systems approach can illuminate language use as the intentional and creative activity that it is. Cowley and Thibault illustrate the distributed language approach. Cowley follows Gibson (1979/1986) in comparing language understanding to picture perception. Thibault illustrates the wholly embedded nature of language use in an evocative example of 2 boys offering a description of aliens they have learned about in a story. All of the contributors emphasize language as embodied social action deeply embedded in the social contexts of talking. The articles in this issue and its predecessor, Ecological Psychology 22(4), offer valuable insights for development of an ecological theory of language use. Gibson claims that the information available to perceptual systems of different species is specific to environmental events and therefore it is not arbitrary .... Dialogically coordinated utterance activity between individuals in talk is an extension of this fundamental principle, not something that is completely different. (Thibault, this issue, p. 220)
637	ecological	2010	Chandrasekharan, S; Osbeck, L	Rethinking Situatedness Environment Structure in the Time of the Common Code	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	Common coding proposes a shared representation in the brain between perception, execution, and imagination of movement. this neural-level representation is considered to support a "direct activation" of action by perception/imagination of movement at the behavioral level. We examine how this two-tier model, where a representation at the neural level supports "direct activation" at the behavioral level, relates to the notion of situatedness-the real-time access and use of environment structure for cognition. reviewing four leading environment-oriented approaches to cognition (ecological psychology, situated action, distributed cognition, and ecological rationality), we show that the access and use of the environment structures proposed by three of these approaches require a mechanism that supports both representations and direct access. We argue that the two-tier common coding model provides such an integrated mechanism, and, further, it extends and refines the notion of direct perception.
638	ecological	2008	Carello, C; Silva, PL; Kinsella-Shaw, JM; Turvey, MT	Muscle-based perception: theory, research and implications for rehabilitation	REVISTA BRASILEIRA DE FISIOTERAPIA	Background: Muscle-based perception of the spatial properties of limbs constrains the patterning. timing and magnitude of muscle forces while performing motor activities. The centrality of muscle-based perception to both ordinary and skilled actions warrants attention from the rehabilitation community, since deficits in its functioning would be related to important functional limitations. In this overview. we summarize a body of research that may be Used to guide the development of effective assessment tools and rehabilitation programs that are specifically directed towards such deficits. Objectives: There were four specific aims: first, to present all information-based approach to muscle-based perception that is grounded in physical laws; second to identify central principles underlying muscle-based perception that have been revealed and supported by empirical work third, to summarize reports that have investigated whether the principles identified can be generalized to muscle-based perception in individuals with sensory-motor impairments, and fourth to provide a preliminary discussion of the potential implications of the research presented here for issues relating to rehabilitation.
639	ecological	2007	Hodges, BH; Baron, RM	On making social psychology more ecological and ecological psychology more social	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	0
640	ecological	2004	Coss, RG; Charles, EP	The role of evolutionary hypotheses in psychological research: Instincts, affordances, and relic sex differences	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Properly formed and properly used evolutionary hypotheses invalidate most common criticisms and must be judged, like other hypotheses in science, through their ability to be theoretically and empirically progressive. Well-formed hypotheses incorporate established evolutionary theory with evidence of actual historical conditions. A complex, multifaceted hypothesis can predict patterns of phenotypic variation that would make sense if the hypothesis is true, but be unlikely if it is false. This approach to evolutionarily guided research is illustrated via the sexual-dinichism hypothesis, which proposes historical niche divergence between the sexes during which females could still make adaptive use of trees, but larger males could not. This has led to the investigation of several traits in modern children, where evidence for predicted sex differences in behavior were discovered. We find the objections of critics (e.g., Burton, this issue) to be appropriate for criticizing post hoc evolutionary explanations and perhaps poorly developed hypotheses, but not well-formed and properly used theories. We hold that evolutionary theories are an essential part of psychology in general and ecological psychology in particular.
641	ecological	2002	Young, MF; Depalma, A; Garrett, S	Situations, interaction, process and affordances: An ecological psychology perspective	INSTRUCTIONAL SCIENCE	From an ecological psychology perspective, a full analysis of any learning context must acknowledge the complex nonlinear dynamics that unfold as an intentionally-driven learner interacts with a technology-based purposefully designed learning environment. Further, a full analysis must avoid focusing only on the individual within the learning context and not accounting for the intentionality and constraining influence of the designer and the broader community. Finally, such an analysis must either pin down how learning and development can be driven by perception of the environment alone (detection of affordances), or alternatively from an ecological perspective, by a cyclical interaction of perception and action. This paper presents these parameters for any model of context or situation in relationship to the issues raised by Akhras and Self's (this issue) presentation on intelligent learning environments. We propose that a full situation model would need to incorporate constraints not only from the environment, but also from the individual and most precisely from the specific interaction at the moment of an occasion.
642	ecological	2001	Ruble, LA	Analysis of social interactions as goal-directed behaviors in children with autism	JOURNAL OF AUTISM AND DEVELOPMENTAL DISORDERS	An ecological psychology framework that considers the intentions of the child within the child's own social context was used to study the complexity of social interactions of 16 children with autism or Down syndrome. Children were observed in their homes and behaviors were recorded. Records were then analyzed by dividing behavior based on the children's own goals. Goal-directed behaviors were then categorized. Statistical analyses revealed similar social contexts and opportunities to receive bids from others for both groups. Differences in the frequencies and complexities of children's behaviors depended on behavioral intent. Socially intended behaviors were less frequent, less self-initiated, and less complex in children with autism. These findings are discussed as problems of attention and executive function, because social behaviors were more likely to occur secondarily, within the context of another ongoing behavior.
643	ecological	1996	Adam, JJ; Paas, FGWC; Buekers, MJ; Wuyts, IJ; Spijkers, WAC; Wallmeyer, P	Perception-action coupling in choice reaction time tasks	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	This study investigates choice reaction time latencies in three kinds of stimulus-response ensembles. That is, using a four-choice reaction time task, three different types of responses (i.e., a pointing, finger-lift, or vocal response), were mapped onto the same spatial stimuli. Results show that reaction time of the more natural (i.e., affordance compatible) pointing response is more than 100 ms shorter than that of the more artificial finger and vocal responses. More critically, however, finger and vocal responses show striking serial position effects while latency of the pointing response is independent of target position. This latter outcome is interpreted as being consistent with the view that the specific nature of the stimulus-response relationship may determine whether an intermediate, stimulus-response translation, stage is needed to link perception and action, or that it is bypassed, allowing direct perception-action routines to guide performance. This interpretation is compatible with the idea that the information-processing and the ecological frameworks are not mutually exclusive but complementary in that they address different kinds of perception-action phenomena.
644	ecological	2014	Proctor, RW; Miles, JD	Does the Concept of Affordance Add Anything to Explanations of Stimulus-Response Compatibility Effects?	PSYCHOLOGY OF LEARNING AND MOTIVATION, VOL 60	The concept of affordance has been increasingly applied to stimulus response compatibility effects over the past 25 years, for which most explanations have been from an information-processing perspective. We consider affordance accounts offered from the ecological perception approach associated with J. J. Gibson and from the information-processing approach (which we call representational affordance accounts). With regard to the latter, we discuss whether any value is gained by incorporating a concept from one worldview (ecological psychology) into explanations within another worldview (information processing). We discuss shortcomings of the representational affordance approach in general, including lack of clear justification and definition for the concept of affordance representation, and critically evaluate several lines of research that have been interpreted as support for specific affordances. We conclude that there is little evidence to justify application of the concept of affordance to laboratory studies of stimulus response compatibility effects, either in its ecological form or when it is divorced from direct perception and instead paired with a representational/computational approach.
645	ecological	2013	Cowley, S; Nash, L	Language, interactivity and solution probing: repetition without repetition	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Recognition of the importance of autopoiesis to biological systems was crucial in building an alternative to the classic view of cognitive science. However, concepts like structural coupling and autonomy are not strong enough to throw light on language and human problem solving. The argument is presented though a case study where a person solves a problem and, in so doing relies on non-local aspects of the ecology as well as his observer's mental domain. Like Anthony Chemero we make links with ecological psychology to emphasize how embodiment draws on cultural resources as people concert thinking, action and perception. We trace this to human interactivity or sense-saturated coordination that renders possible language and human forms of cognition: it links human sense-making to historical experience. People play roles with natural and cultural artifacts as they act, animate groups and live through relationships drawing on language that is, at once, artificial and natural. Thus, while constrained by wordings, interactivity is able to fine-tune what we do with action-perception loops. Neither language nor human problem solving reduce to biological sense-making.
646	ecological	2012	Hodges, BH; Steffensen, SV; Martin, JE	Caring, conversing, and realizing values: new directions in language studies	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Language serves many functions for humans, but three of the most important are coordination, learning, and friendship. All of those functions were well served by the conversations from which this special issue emerged, a conference, "Grounding language in perception and (inter) action", held at Gordon College in June 2009. The conference brought together researchers primarily from three research traditions, dynamical systems theory, distributed language, and ecological psychology, and each of these perspectives is reviewed and illustrated in this special issue. The particular focus of this issue, though, is the role of conversations in humans caring for each other and the ecosystems of which they are a part. Emergency medical care, parents and children playing, and students learning a second language, are among the contexts of caring considered. Also considered are ways in which symbol systems emerge, ways in which language extends and alters perception-action systems, and ways in which infant-caregiver relations (i.e., first friendships) are constituted. The various articles explore how language is "situated, culturally embodied, emergent, and distributed" (Zukow-Goldring, this issue); how language is a crucial dimension of the extended phenotype of humans; how language increases our ability to care for each other, our common tasks, and the (real or virtual) ecosystems we inhabit: and how language emerges as we coordinate and share perception and action skills. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
647	ecological	2012	Withagen, R; Chemero, A	Affordances and classification: On the significance of a sidebar in James Gibson's last book	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This article is about a sidebar in James Gibson's last book, The ecological approach to visual perception. In this sidebar, Gibson, the founder of the ecological perspective of perception and action, argued that to perceive an affordance is not to classify an object. Although this sidebar has received scant attention, it is of great significance both historically and for recent discussions about specificity, direct perception, and the functions of the dorsal and ventral streams. It is argued that Gibson's acknowledgment of Wittgenstein's ideas of classification suggests a limited scope of his theory of direct perception-it cannot account for the classification of objects. The implications for both the specification debate and theorizing about the brain's dorsal and ventral pathways are explored. Based on a recent ecological conception of information and direct perception, we ultimately argue that both affordance perception and classification are direct.
648	ecological	2011	Garcia-Gonzalez, L; Araujo, D; Carvalho, J; Iglesias, D	AN OVERVIEW OF THEORIES AND RESEARCH METHODS ON DECISION MAKING IN TENNIS	REVISTA DE PSICOLOGIA DEL DEPORTE	In this theoretical and methodological review of decision making in tennis, we describe some of the explanatory theories of the decisional process by using two approaches: cognitive psychology and ecological psychology. Within the former approach, based on models of information processing, we focus on the importance of visual and perceptual behaviour as mediators of anticipation and decision-making skills in tennis, as well as related concepts such as attention and visual acuity. Subsequently, we explain other cognitive theories based on mental representations and the development of different types of knowledge and memory as a central and decisive component in decision making. The latter approach describes decision making on the basis of ecological psychology, using a decision making approach to the ecological dynamics, heightening the importance of the setting and constraints and understanding tennis as a non-linear, dynamic and self-organized system. We discuss various methodological approaches for evaluating decisions in tennis, regardless of the framework that sustains them. We present different ways of evaluating the decision-making process by analysing verbal protocols and questionnaires, observational analysis, kinematic variables analysis and perceptive analysis. Finally, we conclude by presenting the need to overcome several limitations and study decision making in a holistic manner in which decision making is linked directly to game action.
649	ecological	2009	Travieso, D; Jacobs, DM	The Ecological Level of Analysis: Can Neogibsonian Principles be Applied Beyond Perception and Action?	INTEGRATIVE PSYCHOLOGICAL AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE	Is it useful to apply ecological principles, developed to understand perception and action, in research areas such as social psychology? Charles (Integrative Psychological & Behavioral Sciences 43(1) 53-66 2009) warns ecological psychologists interested in this question that much time and effort can be saved through a backwards extension to or rediscovery of the New Realism tradition. In response, we analyze what ecological psychology risks to lose with such a backwards extension and describe existing extensions of the approach not considered by Charles. According to Charles, New Realism holds that: (1) we experience reality, (2) relations are real, and (3) things are what you see when you see those things. Our arguments originate from a comparison of these principles with six recently described ecological ones: (1) organism-environment systems are the proper units of analysis, (2) environmental realities should be defined at the ecological scale, (3) behavior is emergent and self-organized, (4) perception and action are continuous and cyclic, (5) information is specificational, and (6) perception is of affordances (Richardson et al. 2008).
650	ecological	2009	Charles, E	The (Old) New Realism: What Holt Has to Offer for Ecological Psychology	INTEGRATIVE PSYCHOLOGICAL AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE	As Ecological Psychology pushes into new areas, success will be made easier by a rediscovery its theoretical history, in particular the "New Realism", lead in part by E. B. Holt. Three New Realists tenants seem particularly relevant: (1) we experience reality, (2) relations are real, and (3) things are what you see when you see those things. Though the two groups differ in terms of their conception of perception, and what can be perceived, their conceptions are related in very insightful ways. Further, the comparison reemphasizes the extent of unique empirical claims ecological psychologists make, and grounds those claims within a larger framework for psychology as a whole. This makes obvious the need for further work on the mathematics of invariants, the physiological mechanisms of information extraction, and the behaviors of perception.
651	ecological	2008	Jayawickreme, E; Chemero, A	Ecological moral realism: An alternative theoretical framework for studying moral psychology	REVIEW OF GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY	The authors propose that the empirical study of human moral behavior as undertaken by positive psychologists, psychologists interested in the study of values, and experimental ethicists can be normative at its core, yet also remain truly scientific. To do this, those interested in the empirical study of human moral behavior should consider the concept of affordances, which is central to the Gibsonian ecological psychology tradition, as an approach to studying virtues and strengths. From this perspective, virtues can be better defined as part of moral analogues of affordances (MAAs). Just as the affordance "being-climbable" is a relation between climbing ability and height, so one can similarly define a MAA as an opportunity for moral behavior. Virtues, on this account, would be defined as abilities to behave appropriately in morally relevant situations. If one studies virtues as components of MAAs, virtues are only comprehensible in terms of morally relevant situations. Similarly, morally relevant situations are comprehensible only in terms of abilities to behave appropriately in them, that is, in terms of virtues. We believe that such an approach holds many advantages.
652	ecological	2008	Chan, CC; Ho, WC	An ecological framework for evaluating relationship-functional aspects of youth mentoring	JOURNAL OF APPLIED SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	The present research examined what is necessary to make youth mentoring effective. Central to the discussion is mentee-mentor relationship quality in relation to program effectiveness. Data were drawn from an ongoing youth mentoring program organized in Hong Kong using a conceptual framework derived from ecological psychology to guide analysis. Data analysis followed a multistage process. Quantitative factor analysis was computed to identify the principal components of the mentee-mentor relationship. Then, to explore subjective meanings of the quantitative findings, in-depth interviews were conducted with 48 mentees who were randomly selected from the respondents. Further statistical associations and qualitative categorizations were conducted with this subsample to examine the complex relations between the relationship outcomes and the program (functional) outcomes.
653	ecological	2006	Wells, AJ	In defense of mechanism	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In Life Itself and in Essays on Life Itself, Robert Rosen (1991, 2000) argued that machines were, in principle, incapable of modeling the defining feature of living systems, which he claimed to be the existence of closed causal loops. Rosen's argument has been used to support critiques of computational models in ecological psychology. This article shows that Rosen's attack on mechanism is fundamentally misconceived. It is, in fact, of the essence of a mechanical system that it contains closed causal loops. Moreover, Rosen's epistemology is based on a strong form of indirect realism and his arguments, if correct, would call into question some of the fundamental principles of ecological psychology.
654	ecological	2002	Kruger, N; Ackermann, M; Sommer, G	Accumulation of object representations utilising interaction of robot action and perception	KNOWLEDGE-BASED SYSTEMS	We introduce a robotic-vision system which is able to extract object representations autonomously utilising a tight interaction of visual perception and robotic action within a perception action cycle [Ecological Psychology 4 (1992) 121; Algebraic Frames for the Perception and Action Cycle, 1997, 1]. Controlled movement of the object grasped by the robot enables us to compute the transformations of entities which are used to represent aspects of objects and to find correspondences of entities within an image sequence. A general accumulation scheme allows to acquire robust information from partly missing information extracted from single frames of an image sequence. Here we use this scheme with a preprocessing stage in which 3D-line segments are extracted from stereo images. However. the accumulation scheme can be used with any kind of preprocessing as long as the entities used to represent objects can be brought to correspondence by certain equivalence relations such as 'rigid body motion'. We show that an accumulated representation can be applied within a tracking algorithm. The accumulation scheme is an important module of a vision based robot system on which we are currently working. In this system, objects are planned to be represented by different visual and tactile entities. The object representations are going to be learned autonomously. We discuss the accumulation scheme in the context of this project. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
655	ecological	2013	Millar, SK; Oldham, ARH; Renshaw, I	Interpersonal, Intrapersonal, Extrapersonal? Qualitatively Investigating Coordinative Couplings between Rowers in Olympic Sculling	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS PSYCHOLOGY AND LIFE SCIENCES	Coordinative couplings are commonly classified as interpersonal and intrapersonal. Interpersonal coordination is normally thought of as between organisms but a subset can also be considered where the co-actors movements are coupled to an environmental rhythm. This can be termed extrapersonal coordination. This study explores how coordination is achieved in a situation that demands that at least one actor makes use of extrapersonal sources. In this case multi-seat rowing, where one actor cannot see the other one behind them. A qualitative approach using experiential knowledge from expert rowers (N=9) and coaches (N=4) was used to examine how interpersonal coordination was achieved and maintained in 2 person rowing boats. It was reported that where possible, both rowers coordinated their movements by coupling with an invariant provided by the boat. This invariant is underpinned by perception of water flow past the boat; which is in turn used to determine changes in acceleration "rowing with the boat." Bow seat also identified the rower in front and stroke seat identified the looming of the stern as viable alternative sources for coupling.
656	ecological	2013	Heft, H	An Ecological Approach to Psychology	REVIEW OF GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY	Even though the term "ecology" was introduced into scientific discourse in the 1860s, and by century's end much of experimental psychology had embraced an evolutionary perspective, it took more than another half century before proposals for an ecological psychology began to appear. Even so, ecological psychology was marginali7ed from the mainstream of the discipline, and it remains so today. This disjunction between psychology's embrace of evolutionary theory and its resistance to ecological thinking can be explained, in large part, historically. It was Herbert Spencer's evolutionary framework, that assumes an environment-mind dichotomy, which was embraced by most early psychologists, and its influence remains today. A Darwinian perspective, in contrast, stresses the activity of an organism in the context of the dynamic mutual relations of its econiche. At the heart of Darwinian thinking, and in turn ecological psychology, are dynamic organism-environment relations, functionally meaningful environmental properties, as well as change and variation. An ecological psychology also recognizes that humans, like other living things, adapt to their econiche, in part, by altering it and thereby modifying the econiche's functional properties. The human econiche, in particular, is characterized by functionally significant, socially normative meanings owing to the sociocultural systems that naturally stem from the character of hominid evolution.
657	ecological	2013	Renaud, P; Chartier, S; Rouleau, JL; Proulx, J; Goyette, M; Trottier, D; Fedoroff, P; Bradford, JP; Dassylva, B; Bouchard, S	Using immersive virtual reality and ecological psychology to probe into child molesters' phenomenology	JOURNAL OF SEXUAL AGGRESSION	Child molesters (n = 13) and sexually non-deviant subjects (n = 29) were immersed with virtual characters depicting relevant sexual features while their sexual arousal and gaze behaviour were assessed to characterise their sexual preferences and intentional dynamics. Sexual arousal was measured using circumferential penile plethysmography (PPG). Gaze behaviour dynamics were derived from average gaze radial angular deviation (GRAD) and GRAD coefficient of variation (GRADCV). Results show distinct sexual arousal profiles according to sexual preferences and point towards the existence of specific gaze behaviour dynamics guided by sexual intentions. Theoretical interpretations are based on the ecological psychology of J. J. Gibson, the extended mind theory and the integrated theory of sexual offending. Theoretical underpinnings stemming from these approaches are advocated as being especially well suited to explain how virtual reality can help probing into child molesters' phenomenology as lived from the "first-person" stance.
658	ecological	2012	Reybrouck, M	Musical Sense-Making and the Concept of Affordance: An Ecosemiotic and Experiential Approach	BIOSEMIOTICS	This article is interdisciplinary in its claims. Evolving around the ecological concept of affordance, it brings together pragmatics and ecological psychology. Starting from the theoretical writings of Peirce, Dewey and James, the biosemiotic claims of von Uexkull, Gibson's ecological approach to perception and some empirical evidence from recent neurobiological research, it elaborates on the concepts of experiential and enactive cognition as applied to music. In order to provide an operational description of this approach, it introduces some conceptual tools from the domain of cybernetics with a major focus on the concept of circularity, which links perception to action in a continuous process of sense-making and interaction with the environment. As such, it is closely related to some pragmatic, biosemiotic and ecosemiotic claims which can be subsumed under the general notion of functional significance. An attempt is made to apply this conceptual framework to the process of musical sense-making which involves the realisation of systemic cognition in the context of epistemic interactions that are grounded in our biology and possibilities for adaptive control. Central in this approach is the concept of coping with the environment, or, in musical terms, to perceive the sounding music in terms of what it affords for the consummation of musical behaviour.
659	ecological	2012	Jayawickreme, E; Di Stefano, P	How Can We Study Heroism? Integrating Persons, Situations and Communities	POLITICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Heroisman individual's commitment to a noble purpose, usually aimed at furthering the welfare of others, and involving the willingness to accept the consequences of achieving that purposehas received little attention from political psychologists, even though a person is arguably as liable to act heroically as she is to act in a morally reprehensible manner. Specifically, important questions remain in how heroes can be identified beforehand and how such behavior can be successfully studied and promoted. We posit that recent work in genocide studies, positive psychology, personality psychology, ecological psychology, and moral psychology provides new and promising directions for better understanding heroic behavior. These developments can provide the tools for understanding the complex interplay of factorsincluding traits, situations, and communal beliefsmotivating heroic behavior.
660	ecological	2011	Shafizadeh, M; McMorris, T; Sproule, J	EFFECT OF DIFFERENT EXTERNAL ATTENTION OF FOCUS INSTRUCTION ON LEARNING OF GOLF PUTTING SKILL	PERCEPTUAL AND MOTOR SKILLS	The effect of different sources of external attentional focus on learning a motor skill was assessed in the present study. 30 students (12 men, 18 women) participated voluntarily and were divided, according to type of external focus, into target, club swing, and target-club swing groups. The task was a golf putting skill. The target focus group attended to the target (hole), the club swing focus group attended to the execution of the club's swing, and the target-club swing focus group attended to both. All participants performed 50 trials of the putting skill in the acquisition phase and 10 trials in the 24-hr. delayed retention phase. The dependent variable was the error in the putting skill measured as the distance from the hole to the ball after each strike. Results showed the target-club swing focus group had better scores in the acquisition and retention phases than the other groups. It was concluded that external focus instruction helped the learners to integrate target cue with action cue and is more effective in skill learning than other external-focus instructions. These results support the claims of ecological psychology theorists concerning the effects of external focus of attention.
661	ecological	2011	Brinkmann, S	Dewey's neglected psychology: Rediscovering his transactional approach	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	Unlike his ideas about education and philosophy, John Dewey's psychology has been largely neglected. This article begins the rediscovery of his transactional psychology by seeking a synthesizing reading of those of his works that pertain to psychology. The article first outlines his transactional approach and also his metapsychology, which conceived of psychology as involved in the constitution of its own subject matter. Then some central psychological concepts such as habit, thinking, self, mind, meaning, and consciousness are explained within the transactional framework, and some similarities are highlighted between Dewey's psychology and ecological psychology. It is argued that Dewey's psychology is still very relevant in the 21st century.
662	ecological	2011	Charles, EP	Ecological Psychology and Social Psychology: It is Holt, or Nothing!	INTEGRATIVE PSYCHOLOGICAL AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE	What is the greatest contribution that ecological psychologists can offer social psychology? Ideally, ecological psychologists could explain how people directly perceive the unique properties of their social partners. But social partners are distinguished from mundane objects because they possess mental traits, and tradition tells us that minds cannot be seen. When considering the ideal possibility, we reject that doctrine and posit minds as perceivable. For ecological psychology, this entails asserting that minds are the types of things able to structure ambient energy. Contemporary research and theory suggests distinctly ecological ways of attacking this problem, but the problem is not new. Almost 100 years ago, Holt argued for the visibility of minds. Thus when considering these ideas, ecological psychologists face a choice that is at once about their future and their past. Extending ecological psychology's first principles into the social realm, we come to the point where we must either accept or reject Holt's arguments, and the wider context they bring. In doing so, we accept or reject our ability to study the uniquely social.
663	ecological	2006	Jump, M; Padfield, GD	Progress in the development of guidance strategies for the landing flare manoeuvre using tau-based parameters	AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING AND AEROSPACE TECHNOLOGY	Purpose - To provide a progress report into research conducted to establish guidelines for the development of guidance vision aids. Design/methodology/approach - The first stage of the research is to establish a coherent engineering basis for the methods of (visual) motion perception and control to inform the design of pilot aids that will support flight in degraded visual conditions, particularly when close to the ground. The next stage will then be to construct and evaluate synthetic displays that recover the visual cues necessary to allow flight in degraded visual conditions for a range of manoeuvres using the flight simulation facilities at the University of Liverpool (UoL). The research is guided by tau (time to contact) theory from the field of ecological psychology. Findings - The closure of spatial gaps for a number of aircraft manoeuvres are presented in the tau domain. Analysis of the landing flare manoeuvre suggest that both a constant rate of change of tau strategy and an intrinsic tau-guidance strategy will yield benefits in terms of touchdown descent rate if presented as display symbology. Research limitations/implications - Results are presented from trials where only one professional pilot was used. Results from a wider population of pilots need to be analysed to ensure that the observed trends are generic. Practical implications - The reported results are being used in the next phase of the research project to inform the design of a guidance vision-aid for the flare manoeuvre. These displays will be tested in flight simulation trials. Originality/value - The research takes a theory of motion perception and applies it to aircraft guidance display technology.
664	ecological	2005	Kadar, EE; Effken, JA	From discrete actors to goal-directed actions: Toward a process-based methodology for psychology	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Studying social phenomena is often assumed to be inherently different from studying natural science phenomena. In psychology, this assumption has led to a division of the field into social and experimental domains. The same kind of division has carried over into ecological psychology, despite the fact that Gibson clearly intended his theory for both social and natural phenomena. In this paper, we argue that the social/natural science dichotomy can be derived from a distinction between hermeneutics and science that is deeply rooted in the atomistic, structuralist ontological tradition. We show that, from a process-based perspective, the central questions of hermeneutics (action of an individual within a context of possible actions), ecological psychology (behavior of an organism in an ecological niche) and physics (motion of a particle in a field) share a similar structure. Building on these ideas, we propose a common, process-based methodology for psychology that integrates field theory with insights from quantum mechanics to accommodate traditionally problematic concepts in natural science such as teleology and values. To demonstrate the feasibility of this approach, empirical findings on the paradigmatic problem of prospective control (such as gaze control in automobile driving in relation to perceptual tuning) are presented.
665	ecological	2015	Meagher, BR; Marsh, KL	Testing an Ecological Account of Spaciousness in Real and Virtual Environments	ENVIRONMENT AND BEHAVIOR	Cognitions about one's physical environment have a clear psychological impact on inhabitants. However, judgments of a setting's spaciousness have been shown to be based not solely on the dimensions of the enclosure but also on a number of seemingly incidental environmental properties. Nevertheless, a theoretical integration and explanation of these various effects has been lacking. Across five experiments conducted in the laboratory and in virtual reality, we test an affordance-based account, which proposes that impressions of spaciousness are influenced by the wealth of behavioral opportunities offered by the environment. These experiments test how the functional arrangement of furniture (Experiments 1 and 2) and the priming of particular behaviors (Experiments 3a, 3b, and 3c) affect perceivers' spatial impressions of the environment. These findings emphasize that cognitions about spaciousness are determined not by a passive calculation of area but are instead tied to its ability to facilitate physical activity.
666	ecological	2013	Chow, JY	Nonlinear Learning Underpinning Pedagogy: Evidence, Challenges, and Implications	QUEST	This article provides a brief overview of the framework of nonlinear pedagogy and evidence emanating from motor learning literature that underpins a nonlinear pedagogical approach. In addition, challenges for nonlinear pedagogy and a discussion on how nonlinear pedagogy support the work of physical education (PE) teachers will be shared. Evidence from the increasing volume of work on nonlinear learning from motor learning literature is used to suggest how acquisition of movement skills is supported by nonlinearity. The emergence of goal-directed behaviors is a consequence of the performer, environmental, and task constraints. With a nonlinear pedagogy approach, the focus is on the individual learner where opportunities for meaningful actions can be learnt. Design principles based on representativeness, focus of attention, functional variability, manipulation of constraints, and ensuring relevant information-movement couplings can be delivered via pedagogical channels of instructions, practices, and feedback to the learners. Importantly, this focus on the individual sets the foundation for a developing nonlinear pedagogy framework to enhance teaching in PE although the challenges are non-trivial.
667	ecological	2013	Cancar, L; Diaz, A; Barrientos, A; Travieso, D; Jacobs, DM	Tactile-Sight: A Sensory Substitution Device Based on Distance-Related Vibrotactile Flow Regular Paper	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ADVANCED ROBOTIC SYSTEMS	Sensory substitution is a research field of increasing interest with regard to technical, applied and theoretical issues. Among the latter, it is of central interest to understand the form in which humans perceive the environment. Ecological psychology, among other approaches, proposes that we can detect higher-order informational variables (in the sense that they are defined over substantial spatial and temporal intervals) that specify our interaction with the environment. When using a vibrotactile sensory substitution device, it is reasonable to ask if stimulation on the skin may be exploitable to detect higher-order variables. Motivated by this question, a portable vibrotactile sensory substitution device was built, using distance-based information as a source and driving a large number of vibrotactile actuators (72 in the reported version, 120 max). The portable device was designed to explore real environments, allowing natural unrestricted movement for the user while providing contingent real-time vibrotactile information. Two preliminary experiments were performed. In the first one, participants were asked to detect the time to contact of an approaching ball in a simulated (desktop) environment. Reasonable performance was observed in all experimental conditions, including the one with only tactile stimulation. In the second experiment, a portable version of the device was used in a real environment, where participants were asked to hit an approaching ball. Participants were able to coordinate their arm movements with vibrotactile stimulation in appropriate timing. We conclude that vibrotactile flow can be generated by distance-based activation of the actuators and that this stimulation on the skin allows users to perceive time-to-contact related environmental properties.
668	ecological	2010	Jackson, RE; Cormack, LK	Reducing the presence of navigation risk eliminates strong environmental illusions	JOURNAL OF VISION	Many researchers have assumed that navigational costs, as opposed to the visual stimuli per se, produce several large-magnitude distance illusions-in spite of the absence of experimental data. We used virtual reality to remove the presence of realistic falling costs, while leaving the visual information otherwise intact. This resulted in removal of the distance illusions proposed to have evolved in response to falling costs. These data hold important implications in vision research and ecological psychology, as well as in applied settings such as aviation.
669	ecological	2010	Petrusz, SC; Turvey, MT	On the Distinctive Features of Ecological Laws	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Ecological psychology is grounded in the assumption of the availability of lawlike regularities in the world as the basis of reliable information for perceiving-acting systems. This article aims to articulate some of the necessary conditions for an account of lawfulness that accommodates ecological theories of perceiving and acting. This attempt considers historically influential accounts of laws but offers modifications of the notions of law and especially of cause that are of greater relevance to the practice of an ecological science. A guiding assumption is that the laws of the animate are the most general. The authors advocate understanding laws in reference to reliable regularities, causes as not being strictly Newtonian in character, and flexibility with respect to certain formal and philosophical commitments.
670	ecological	2009	Hammond, KR; Bateman, RA	Sport Psychology as an instance of Ecological Psychology	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	While the vast majority of publications in sport psychology look inward, in this paper we look outward to examine the relationship of the athlete to her environment. We describe the theoretical foundations and methodological implications of Egon Brunswik's "probabilistic functionalism" and contrast that with the dominant theory and method of psychological research, namely the "rule of one variable". We explain the importance of Brunswik's concept of "representative design" if sport psychologists want to generalize their results from their studies to the competitive environment. We then use examples from the sport of tennis to show how probabilistic functionalism and representative design can he used in studying and training athletes.
671	ecological	2001	Wolfe, CR	Plant a tree in cyberspace: Metaphor and analogy as design elements in Web-based learning environments	CYBERPSYCHOLOGY & BEHAVIOR	Analogy and metaphor are figurative forms of communication that help people integrate new information with prior knowledge to facilitate comprehension and appropriate inferences. The novelty and versatility of the Web place cognitive burdens on learners that can be overcome through the use of analogies and metaphors. This paper explores three uses of figurative communication as design elements in Web-based learning environments, and provides empirical illustrations of each. First, extended analogies can be used as the basis of cover stories that create an analogy between the learner's position and a hypothetical situation. The Dragonfly Web pages make extensive use of analogous cover stories in the design of interactive decision-making games. Feedback from visitors, patterns of usage, and external reviews provide evidence of effectiveness. A second approach is visual analogies based on the principles of ecological psychology. An empirical example suggests that visual analogies are most effective when there is a one-to-one correspondence between the base and visual target analogs. The use of learner-generated analogies is a third approach. Data from an offline study with undergraduate science students are presented indicating that generating analogies are associated with significant improvements in the ability to place events in natural history on a time line. It is concluded that cyberspace itself might form the basis of the next guiding metaphor of mind.
672	ecological	2001	Norman, J	Ecological psychology and the two visual systems: Not to worry!	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Michaels (2000) expressed concerns about the implications of the notion of 2 Visual systems (Milner & Goodale, 1995) for ecological psychology. This leads her to suggest a decoupling of perception and action, by which action is separate from perception. It is suggested that although Michaels noted, on the one hand, that Milner and Goodale's approach to perception is a constructivist one, she mistakenly adopts their view that separates vision for perception from vision for action. An alternative position is presented, based on a recent article (Norman, in press), in which the parallels between the 2 visual systems, dorsal and ventral, and the 2 theoretical approaches, ecological and constructivist, are elucidated. According to this dual-process approach to perception. both systems are perceptual systems. The ecological-dorsal system is the system that picks up information about the ambient environment allowing the organism to negotiate it. It is suggested that this type of perception always processes the relevant information for action and that there is no need to sever the perception-action coupling. Ecological psychology and the 2 visual systems are quite compatible, and there is no need for concern.
673	ecological	1985	WOHLWILL, JF	MUCHOW,MARTHA, 1892-1933 - HER LIFE, WORK, AND CONTRIBUTION TO DEVELOPMENTAL AND ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	HUMAN DEVELOPMENT	0
674	ecological	2015	Abrahamson, D; Trninic, D	Bringing forth mathematical concepts: signifying sensorimotor enactment in fields of promoted action	ZDM-THE INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL ON MATHEMATICS EDUCATION	Inspired by Enactivist philosophy yet in dialog with it, we ask what theory of embodied cognition might best serve in articulating implications of Enactivism for mathematics education. We offer a blend of Dynamical Systems Theory and Sociocultural Theory as an analytic lens on micro-processes of action-to-concept evolution. We also illustrate the methodological utility of design-research as an approach to such theory development. Building on constructs from ecological psychology, cultural anthropology, studies of motor-skill acquisition, and somatic awareness practices, we develop the notion of an "instrumented field of promoted action". Children operating in this field first develop environmentally coupled motor-action coordinations. Next, we introduce into the field new artifacts. The children adopt the artifacts as frames of action and reference, yet in so doing they shift into disciplinary semiotic systems. We exemplify our thesis with two selected excerpts from our videography of Grade 4-6 volunteers participating in task-based clinical interviews centered on the Mathematical Imagery Trainer for Proportion. In particular, we present and analyze cases of either smooth or abrupt transformation in learners' operatory schemes. We situate our design framework vis-a-vis seminal contributions to mathematics education research.
675	ecological	2015	McIlroy, RC; Stanton, NA	Ecological Interface Design Two Decades On: Whatever Happened to the SRK Taxonomy?	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON HUMAN-MACHINE SYSTEMS	Since first receiving attention in the literature almost 25 years ago, ecological interface design has been applied to a wide variety of man-machine systems across a range of domains. The design framework has its theoretical basis in Gibsonian ecological psychology, and its founding principles draw heavily on Jens Rasmussen's skills, rules, and knowledge (SRK) taxonomy. This paper presents a comprehensive review of the framework's applications since Vicente and Rasmussen's 1992 seminal article detailing the theoretical foundations of the method. There is variation in terms of both the use of the two fundamental components of the method as it was first described, and how it has been supplemented with other phases of the cognitive work analysis; this review highlights these variations with regard to how the design framework has been applied and how these applications have been reported in the literature. The importance of the SRK taxonomy to the framework is specifically discussed following the finding that 40% of reviewed applications do not cite this component despite its centrality to ecological interface design. Attention is drawn to the method's flexibility and adaptability, to its contribution to the content and form of an interface, and a point is made about the importance of being clear and consistent when reporting how the method has been applied and, where appropriate, adapted.
676	ecological	2015	Demir, R	Strategic Activity as Bundled Affordances	BRITISH JOURNAL OF MANAGEMENT	This study addresses the question of how strategy actors instil strategic behaviour in everyday strategic activity despite their physical absence. To do this, I draw on ecological psychology and introduce the concept of bundled affordances, multiple spatiotemporally distinct yet co-performing action possibilities offered to strategists in single strategic events. Through an in-depth qualitative study of three affiliated banks, I illustrate that affordances can be usefully bundled when familiar features of material objects are placed in the everyday perceptual field of strategists. The study further suggests that when corporate interests and individual goals are effectively entangled into affordance bundles, they not only motivate individuals to behave strategically but also make those actions intuitive rather than open-ended action possibilities, instructive rather than interpretive, and readily identifiable in events rather than in information about the properties of material objects.
677	ecological	2015	van Dijk, L; Withagen, R; Bongers, RM	Information without content: A Gibsonian reply to enactivists' worries	COGNITION	In this article, we aim to strengthen the emerging radical, non-representational, approaches to cognitive science by defusing the worries radical enactivists have with the use of information in the ecological approaches - namely the worry that information carries content. We show that Gibson's later use of the concept is meant to allow for a content-less notion of information, but that the language surrounding information in ecological psychology has subsequently slipped into a more cognitivistic vocabulary. We argue that by considering ecological information not to be information about, but information for affordances, the notion of information can be fruitfully applied without invoking notions of content. Gibson's later notion of information for perception, stresses the insight that in ecological theory there is no information in content, but only in use. It is suggested that radical cognition should embrace this notion of information without content, as doing so can help to situate the enactivist's "basic mind" into large and complex scales of coordination. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
678	ecological	2014	Cowley, SJ	Linguistic embodiment and verbal constraints: human cognition and the scales of time	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Using radical embodied cognitive science, the paper offers the hypothesis that language is symbiotic: its agent-environment dynamics arise as linguistic embodiment is managed under verbal constraints. As a result, co-action grants human agents the ability to use a unique form of phenomenal experience. In defense of the hypothesis, I stress how linguistic embodiment enacts thinking: accordingly, I present auditory and acoustic evidence from 750 ms of mother-daughter talk, first, in fine detail and, then, in narrative mode. As the parties attune, they use a dynamic field to co-embody speech with experience of wordings. The latter arise in making and tracking phonetic gestures that, crucially, mesh use of artifice, cultural products and impersonal experience. As observers, living human beings gain dispositions to display and use social subjectivity. Far from using brains to "process" verbal content, linguistic symbiosis grants access to diachronic resources. On this distributed-ecological view, language can thus be redefined as: "activity in which wordings play a part."
679	ecological	2014	Hodges, BH	Righting language: a view from ecological psychology	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Scientific models of language have tended to focus on forms deprived of their ecological context: Speaking and listening have been viewed as disembodied and unaddressed. An ecological approach works to return language to its rightful place, as a socially embedded, morally accountable set of activities that are fundamentally dialogical. Language is viewed as a distributed set of meaning-seeking activities that are primarily physical and pragmatic, the function of which is to realize values, including caring for others and self, and the places they inhabit. Psychologically, language is focused in dialogical arrays, which can function as distributed cognitive systems for perceiving, acting, and reasoning. This more distributed, embodied view of linguistic activity draws attention to its systematic, multi-scalar complexity; to its ability to tie its participants to a place, a history, and a way of life; to the frustration and responsibility entailed in speaking and listening; and to the possibility that it is a form of direct acting and perceiving that extends human capabilities by orders of magnitude. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
680	ecological	2013	van der Kamp, J; Withagen, R; de Wit, MM	Cultural and learning differences in the Judd illusion	ATTENTION PERCEPTION & PSYCHOPHYSICS	In the present study, we examined whether individual differences in the perception of illusory Judd drawings point to variability in the pickup of informational variables. Two sources for these individual differences were addressed: culture and learning. East Asian (n = 24) and Western (n = 24) participants made perceptual judgments of the midpoint of the shaft of various Judd figures in a pretest-practice-posttest design. During practice, half of the participants received feedback about the actual midpoint after each trial, while the other half did not receive feedback. The results showed differences among perceivers of different cultures in judging the midpoints of the shafts of Judd figures, particularly with respect to their propensity to improve perceptual accuracy after repeated practice and feedback. For most participants, changes in illusory bias as a consequence of learning were shown to reflect either a change in what informational variable they exploited or a rescaling or calibration of the perception to the informational variable. However, the individual differences in illusory bias related to culture could not be unequivocally attributed to either of these perceptual-learning processes.
681	ecological	2010	Basanta, A	Syntax as Sign: The use of ecological models within a semiotic approach to electroacoustic composition	ORGANISED SOUND	This article examines the possibilities afforded by the use of ecological models in electroacoustic compositions within a semiotic framework for composition. The ecological model is defined and distinguished as a signifier which is recognised through its syntax, and is examined in relation to theoretical writings in the field of electroacoustic composition, as well as approaches adapted from ecological psychology. Several approaches to ecological models most significantly, those explored by Keller and Barrett are surveyed while focusing on both technical and conceptual approaches. Finally, the author suggests new compositional possibilities and modes of engagement using ecological models, specifically through the lens of a semiotic framework and relating to the hybridisation of signs afforded by manipulation of computer models illustrated through the author's recent compositional work.
682	ecological	2010	Masuta, H; Kubota, N	Perceptual System using Spiking Neural Network for an Intelligent Robot	IEEE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON SYSTEMS, MAN AND CYBERNETICS (SMC 2010)	This paper discusses a integrated perceptual system for intelligent control of a service robot. The robot should be able to perceive the environment flexibly to realize intelligent behavior. We focus on the perceptual system based on the perceiving-acting cycle discussed in ecological psychology. We propose a perceptual system composed of the retinal model and the spiking-neural network to realize concept of the perceiving-acting cycle. The proposed method is applied to the robot arm equipped with a 3D-range camera. This proposed method features the robot detects the invariant information of a dish, for example the contrast of a distance Information or a luminance information. As experiments, we discuss about the effectiveness of the proposed method by comparing different input.
683	ecological	2008	Locicero, A; Sinclair, SJ	Terrorism and terrorist leaders: Insights from developmental and ecological psychology	STUDIES IN CONFLICT & TERRORISM	A recent increase in terrorist actions where the terrorist's death is planned and intentional has raised interest in the psychological functioning, motivation, and reasoning of those who engage in terrorism and those who support it. No consensus exists among Western] psychologists regarding terrorists who plan to die in their attack, and no Western psychological perspective has thus far contributed substantively to explaining or predicting it. Although most agree that groups engaging in such actions typically have a wider network of support, the psychology of supporters is also unexplained. This article proposes a developmental psychological model of the conditions that favor focused terrorist actions that have publicly discernible goals ascribed to a political or religious cause. The article describes a common pattern of cognitive complexity among terrorist leaders, using Osama bin Laden as a model, where entrenched cognitive simplicity in one key ideological domain (religious or political) is coupled with behavior reflecting the capacity for far greater complexity in other domains (organizational skills, planning, problem-solving.) This pattern, in specifiable historical and ecological context, makes terrorist tactics, including those in which the attacker intentionally dies, more likely, and increases the challenges associated with attempts at diplomacy or negotiated peace.
684	ecological	2007	Shaw, R; Kinsella-Shaw, J	Could optical 'pushes' be inertial forces? A geometro-dynamical hypothesis	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Under various circumstances perceived optical disturbances have been shown to upset an observer's upright posture (e.g., Lee's gliding room), but no principled explanation has yet been proposed that will handle these phenomena. These so-called optical 'pushes' are conveyed by kinematic information but they act on the observer as if they were kinetic forces. Information (geometry and time) and forces (geometry, time, and mass) thus are mismatched in dimensionality-a problem which precludes treating optical pushes explicitly as mathematical functions. Interpreting such apparent forces as cognitive representations of real forces merely exacerbates the problem. Instead an argument is presented that agrees more with ecological psychology's view that such 'forces' must be directly perceived. Specifically, d'Alembert's Principle adopted from classical mechanics provides a way to construe information for optical pushes as functionally equivalent to inertial forces that arise in reaction to impressed forces and thereby resolve the dimensional mismatch problem. Several examples are given to illustrate this approach.
685	ecological	2002	Shaw, R	Theoretical hubris and the willingness to be radical: An open letter to James J. Gibson	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	J. J. Gibson's direct perception thesis is the cornerstone of ecological psychology. Not to understand this is not to understand ecological psychology. Beginning in the summer of 1968, when I first met Gibson, and after working with him for the next year at Cornell, I underwent a conversion crisis. I came to appreciate his thesis through a few philosophical insights that I here share with the reader through an open letter to Gibson, where I seek to illuminate the reasons for my conversion from being a Miller-Chomsky psycholinguist and a Piaget devotee to a radical Gibsonian. This conversion has influenced my work even until the present. Indeed, I am still working through its implications in all that I attempt. I share this intimate portrait of my relationship to Gibson and his profound ideas in hope that others who have struggled with his thesis might be helped along their way as I was.
686	ecological	2001	Pilisuk, M	Ecological psychology, caring, and the boundaries of the person	JOURNAL OF HUMANISTIC PSYCHOLOGY	The central theme of ecological psychology is interdependence or connection that serves to sustain the balance of life on the planet. The lack of interdependent orientation is clearly seen in a report of a comparative risk assessment process used to rank environmental dangers. Combined emphases on self-development and objective indicators give psychology tao little capacity to address ecological concerns. Ecological psychology shares with some indigenous Native American cultures a mode of thought in which interconnection and its psychological counterpart, caring, are predominant. The underlying beliefs of ecological psychology provide a new paradigm in which the work of psychologists can be a constructive response to dire environmental challenges. There is no point in liberating people if the planet cannot sustain their liberated lives, or in saving the planet by disregarding the preciousness of human existence not only to ourselves but to the rest of life on earth.
687	ecological	2001	Effken, J; Kadar, EE	Learning as progressive biasing of a random walk process: Toward an ecological theory of exploratory learning	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	J. J. Gibson initially developed his theory of the perceptual control of action with an eye toward the perceptual control of locomotion. Subsequently, his theory has been generalized to many other tasks. Recent research has shown the importance of perceptual control skills in computer-based cognitive tasks. These results suggest that the problem of computer-interface design may be not only challenging in its own right but also theoretically promising as a way to investigate the exploratory learning of perceptual control skills. To test this premise, we used an existing instructional interface to capture the exploratory activities of novices as they learned to use a computer program. The aim of the research was to test a diffuse-control model of exploratory learning and a new evaluation methodology based on the model. Our results suggest that the model, which is based on ecological psychology principles, enhances our understanding of exploratory learning. Furthermore, the measures derived from the model provide a more detailed analysis of exploratory learning than current measures. Finally, the diffuse control model and its derived measures proved to be an effective way to evaluate computer-interface design.
688	ecological	1998	Carson, RG	Commentary 2: Ecological psychology and movement dynamics: A plea for biological realism	MOTOR BEHAVIOR AND HUMAN SKILL: A MULTIDISCIPLINARY APPROACH	0
689	ecological	1996	Chan, TC; Shaw, RE	What is ecological psychology?	PSYCHOLOGIA	Ecological psychology comprises two fundamental complementary areas of study: perception and action, as introduced by the American psychologist, J.J. Gibson and the Russian physiologist, Nikolai A. Bernstein, respectively. For Gibson perception is the direct pick-up of invariant information by which animals control their actions to reach environmental goals, not the passive registration of elementary sensations from which experiences are (unconsciously) inferred or computed. Where Gibson rejects the computer metaphor in the study of perception, Bernstein rejects the executive metaphor in the study of action. Both views challenge psychology to develop a functionally integrated organism-environment system, governed by laws, in the place of a psychology of internal states or isolatable faculties, governed by rules. Here the smallest unit of analysis is taken to be the perceiving-acting cycle situated in intentional contexts. The historical motivation of ecological psychology is reviewed and critically discussed.
690	ecological	1991	SOMMER, R; WICKER, AW	GAS STATION PSYCHOLOGY - THE CASE FOR SPECIALIZATION IN ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	ENVIRONMENT AND BEHAVIOR	0
691	ecological	2016	Abrahamson, D; Sanchez-Garcia, R	Learning Is Moving in New Ways: The Ecological Dynamics of Mathematics Education	JOURNAL OF THE LEARNING SCIENCES	Whereas emerging technologies, such as touchscreen tablets, are bringing sensorimotor interaction back into mathematics learning activities, existing educational theory is not geared to inform or analyze passages from action to concept. We present case studies of tutor-student behaviors in an embodied-interaction learning environment, the Mathematical Imagery Trainer. Drawing on ecological dynamics-a blend of dynamical-systems theory and ecological psychology-we explain and demonstrate that: (a) students develop sensorimotor schemes as solutions to interaction problems; (b) each scheme is oriented on an attentional anchor-a real or imagined object, area, or other aspect or behavior of the perceptual manifold that emerges to facilitate motor-action coordination; and (c) when symbolic artifacts are introduced into the arena, they may both mediate new affordances for students' motor-action control and shift their discourse into explicit mathematical re-visualization of the environment. Symbolic artifacts are ontological hybrids evolving from things with which you act to things with which you think. Students engaged in embodied-interaction learning activities are first attracted to symbolic artifacts as prehensible environmental features optimizing their grip on the world, yet in the course of enacting the improved control routines, the artifacts become frames of reference for establishing and articulating quantitative systems known as mathematical reasoning.
692	ecological	2014	Dotov, DG	Putting reins on the brain. How the body and environment use it	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Radical embodied cognitive neuroscience (RECN) will probably rely on dynamical systems theory (DST) and complex systems theory for methods and formalism. Yet, there have been plenty of non-radical neurodynamicists out there for quite some time How much of their work fits with radical embodied cognitive science, what do they need RECN for, and what are the inconsistencies between RECN and established neurodynamics that would have to be resolved? This paper is both theoretical hypothesis and review. First, it provides a brief overview of the typical, purely structural considerations why the central nervous systems (CNS) should be treated as a nonlinear dynamical system and what this entails. The reader will learn about the circular causality enclosing brain and behavior and different attempts to formalize this circularity. Then, three different attempts at linking dynamics and theory of brain function are described in more detail and criticized. A fourth method based on ecological psychology could fix some of the issues that the others encounter. It is argued that studying self-organization of the brain without taking its ecological embedding into account is insufficient. Finally, based on existing theoretical work we propose two roles that the CNS has to be fulfilling in order to allow an animal to behave adequately in its niche. In its first role the CNS has to be enslaved easily by patterns of behavior that guide the animal through its environment. In the second role the brain has to flexibly switch among patterns, what can be called the metastable circuit breaker. The relevance of this idea is supported using certain motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). These symptoms can be explained as consequent to an excessive stability of the (metastable) circuit breaker.
693	ecological	2012	Rosenbaum, DA	The Tiger on Your Tail: Choosing Between Temporally Extended Behaviors	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	The time spent choosing between temporally extended behaviors cannot, in general, last as long as the behaviors themselves; otherwise, the tiger on your tail would have you for lunch. Previous reaction time studies provide little information on this topic, which was explored in the study reported here by showing participants images of scenes for which they could choose a left or right walking-and-reaching path. The paths they chose were nearly identical to ones chosen by participants who actually performed the task in a previous study. Moreover, the times participants took to choose the actions were about 5 times shorter than the times it took to perform them. The choice-time data were inconsistent with the idea that participants picked the path with a lower cost after mentally simulating the paths one after the other. Showing real-world scenes and having participants choose actions for them holds promise for future research in cognitive psychology, ecological psychology, and behavioral ecology.
694	ecological	2012	Spivey, MJ	The spatial intersection of minds	COGNITIVE PROCESSING	Spatial formats of information are ubiquitous in the cognitive and neural sciences. There are neural uses of space in the topographic maps found throughout cortex. There are metaphorical uses of space in cognitive linguistics, physical uses of space in ecological psychology, and mathematical uses of space in dynamical systems theory. These varied informational uses of space each provide a single contiguous medium through which cognitive processes can be shared across subsystems. As we further develop our understanding of how the human mind processes information in real time, the continuous sharing and cascading of information patterns between brain areas can be extended to a sharing and cascading of information between multiple brains and bodies to produce coordinated behavior. Essentially, the way you and the people around you negotiate your shared space affects the way you think, because space is a fundamental part of how you think. It is via space that the mental processes of one mind can form an intersection with the mental processes of another mind.
695	ecological	2011	Walton, D; Lamb, S; Kwok, KCS	A review of two theories of motion sickness and their implications for tall building motion sway	WIND AND STRUCTURES	Low-frequency building vibration is known to induce symptoms of motion sickness in some occupants. This paper examines how the adoption of a theory of motion sickness, in conjunction with a dose-response model might inform the real-world problem of managing and designing standards for tall building motion sway. Building designers require an understanding of human responses to low-dosage motion that is not adequately considered by research into motion sickness. The traditional framework of Sensory Conflict Theory is contrasted with Postural Instability Theory. The most severe responses to motion (i.e., vomiting) are not experienced by occupants of wind-excited buildings. It is predicted that typical response sets to low-dosage motion (sleepiness and fatigue), which has not previously been measured in occupants of tall-buildings, are experienced by building occupants. These low-dose symptoms may either be masked from observation by the activity of occupants or misattributed to the demands of a typical working day. An investigation of the real-world relationship between building motion and the observation of low-dose motion sickness symptoms and a degradation of workplace performance would quantify these effects and reveal whether a greater focus on designing for occupant comfort is needed.
696	ecological	2011	Smith, WW	Skill Acquisition in Physical Education: A Speculative Perspective	QUEST	How we learn motor skills has always been of interest to physical educators. Contemporary conceptual frameworks about motor skill learning draw from earlier behavioral and cognitive psychology learning theories. As a point of departure this paper foregrounds complexity theorizing, arguing that skill is contingent upon the performer's physical and social context. Drawing on nonlinear dynamics systems theory, ecological psychology (Gibson, 1979), its associated perception/action coupling (Kugler and Turvey, 1988), an adaption to Gibson's ecological theory (Withagen & van der Kamp, 2010), and the sociological framework of Pierre Bourdieu (1977, 1990, 1998, 2000), it is argued that ecological perspectives and social theories that take account of the complexity of the performance contexts have a part to play in explaining how physical skills are performed and learnt. The relational properties between the learner and the context are essential elements of skill.
697	ecological	2011	Mori, N	Where are we going beyond the archive metaphor?	CULTURE & PSYCHOLOGY	Brockmeier integrates perspectives of several fields and shows that the use of the archive metaphor is reaching its expiration date. What he offers as an alternative to the metaphor is a new model based on the socio-cultural approach. Although the present author agrees with Brockmeier on the limitations of the archive metaphor and acknowledges the significance of the socio-cultural approach or narrative turn, yet a new view on body-environment relations and time is needed for a new theory of memory. We have found it to be a necessity when working on issues of examination of confession and testimony in legal settings. Our research team has accumulated practical and empirical evidence to propose an ecological approach to remembering and memory. It is also an alternative to the archive metaphor. An ecological approach to remembering and memory in constructing our scholarly autobiography is outlined.
698	ecological	2011	Craig, C; Watson, G	An Affordance Based Approach to Decision Making in Sport: Discussing a Novel Methodological Framework	REVISTA DE PSICOLOGIA DEL DEPORTE	Decision making is a fundamental clement of any sport, particularly open, fast, dynamic team sports such as football, basketball and rugby. At the elite level, athletes appear to consistently make good decisions in situations that are highly temporally constrained. To further understand how this is done has been the aim of researchers within the perception-action field for several decades. The purpose of this article is to present novel contributions, both theoretical and methodological, that are pushing the boundaries of this area of research. The theoretical framework (Ecological psychology) within which the work is posited will be described, followed by a description of Virtual Reality (VR) technology and how it relates to the theoretical aims. Finally, an applied example will be summarised in order to demonstrate how the theoretical approach and the methodological approach come together in practice.
699	ecological	2008	Wagman, JB	Perception-action as reciprocal, continuous, and prospective	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	From the perspective of ecological psychology, perception and action are not separate, linear, and mechanistic processes that refer to the immediate present. Rather, they are reciprocal and continuous and refer to the impending future. Therefore, from the perspective of ecological psychology, delays in perception and action are impossible, and delay compensation mechanisms are unnecessary.
700	ecological	2005	Riley, MA; Shaw, TH; Pagano, CC	Role of the inertial eigenvectors in proprioception near the limits of arm adduction range of motion	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	Common everyday activities such as reaching for a cup, combing one's hair, or positioning a tool involve the accurate registration of the limb's orientation relative to the body and the environment. Past work has demonstrated that the ability of humans to perceive the spatial orientation of an occluded arm is tied to the arm's inertial eigenvectors, invariant mechanical parameters corresponding to a limb's axes of rotational symmetry. In a recent study [Craig, C. M., & Bourdin, C. (2002). Revisited: The inertia tensor as a proprioceptive invariant in humans. Neuroscience Letters, 317, 106-110.] participants pointed to visible targets while the arms' inertial eigenvectors were displaced by asymmetrically weighted splints. The lack of an effect of those splints on pointing error led them to conclude that inertial eigenvectors are not the primary invariants used for proprioception. However, their data suggested an effect of the eigenvectors, but only for conditions in which pointing did not require placing the arm near the limits of shoulder adduction range of motion [Riley, M. A., & Pagano, C. C. (2003). Inertial eigenvectors play a role in proprioception: Comment on Craig and Bourdin (2002). Ecological Psychology, 15, 229-240.]. In the present study we found a significant effect of displacing the eigenvector for all tested arm angles, regardless of degree of shoulder adduction. Overall, the results supported the hypothesis that proprioception is based on sensitivity to the limb's inertial eigenvectors, with no reduction of the eigenvector effect when adducting the arm so as to reach far across the body midline. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
701	embodied	2010	Eitan, Z; Timmers, R	Beethoven's last piano sonata and those who follow crocodiles: Cross-domain mappings of auditory pitch in a musical context	COGNITION	Though auditory pitch is customarily mapped in Western cultures onto spatial verticality (high-low), both anthropological reports and cognitive studies suggest that pitch may be mapped onto a wide variety of other domains. We collected a total number of 35 pitch mappings and investigated in four experiments how these mappings are used and structured. In particular, we inquired (1) how Western subjects apply Western and non-Western metaphors to "high" and "low" pitches, (2) whether mappings applied in an abstract conceptual task are similarly applied by listeners to actual music, (3) how mappings of spatial height relate to these pitch mappings, and (4) how mappings of "high" and "low" pitch associate with other dimensions, in particular quantity, size, intensity and valence. The results show strong agreement among Western participants in applying familiar and unfamiliar metaphors for pitch, in both an abstract, conceptual task (Exp. 1) and in a music listening task (Exp. 2), indicating that diverse cross-domain mappings for pitch exist latently besides the common verticality metaphor. Furthermore. limited overlap between mappings of spatial height and pitch height was found, suggesting that, the Ubiquity of the verticality metaphor in Western usage notwithstanding, cross-domain pitch mappings are largely independent of that metaphor, and seem to be based upon other underlying dimensions. Part of the discrepancy between spatial height and pitch height is that, for pitch, "up" is not necessarily "more," nor is it necessarily "good." High pitch is only "more" for height, intensity and brightness. It is "less" for mass, size and quantity. We discuss implications of these findings for music and speech prosody, and their relevance to notions of embodied cognition and of cross-domain magnitude representation. (c) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
702	embodied	2008	Louwerse, MM	Embodied relations are encoded in language	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Studies of embodied cognition have shown that comprehenders process iconic word pairs (attic-basement) more quickly than reverse-iconic pairs (basement-attic) when the pairs are presented to them in a vertical spatial arrangement. This effect disappears in a horizontal spatial arrangement. This has been claimed to show that comprehenders perceptually simulate these word pairs. A complementary explanation is that linguistic conceptualizations (word order) reflect prelinguistic conceptualizations (spatial iconicity), whereby comprehenders use these linguistic conceptualizations in the comprehension process. The results of corpus linguistic, rating, and semantic judgment studies reported here supported this explanation: Iconic word pairs were more frequent than reverse-iconic word pairs; frequency of word order explained response times in a semantic judgment task better than iconicity did; and when iconic word pairs were presented in a horizontal arrangement, the iconicity effect disappeared, but the word order effect remained. These findings show that spatial iconicity patterns are reflected in word order patterns and that comprehenders are sensitive to these word order patterns in language-processing tasks.
703	embodied	2014	Willems, RM; Van der Haegen, L; Fisher, SE; Francks, C	On the other hand: including left-handers in cognitive neuroscience and neurogenetics	NATURE REVIEWS NEUROSCIENCE	Left-handers are often excluded from study cohorts in neuroscience and neurogenetics in order to reduce variance in the data. However, recent investigations have shown that the inclusion or targeted recruitment of left-handers can be informative in studies on a range of topics, such as cerebral lateralization and the genetic underpinning of asymmetrical brain development. Left-handed individuals represent a substantial portion of the human population and therefore left-handedness falls within the normal range of human diversity; thus, it is important to account for this variation in our understanding of brain functioning. We call for neuroscientists and neurogeneticists to recognize the potential of studying this often-discarded group of research subjects.
704	embodied	2011	Louwerse, MM	Symbol Interdependency in Symbolic and Embodied Cognition	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Whether computational algorithms such as latent semantic analysis (LSA) can both extract meaning from language and advance theories of human cognition has become a topic of debate in cognitive science, whereby accounts of symbolic cognition and embodied cognition are often contrasted. Albeit for different reasons, in both accounts the importance of statistical regularities in linguistic surface structure tends to be underestimated. The current article gives an overview of the symbolic and embodied cognition accounts and shows how meaning induction attributed to a specific statistical process or to activation of embodied representations should be attributed to language itself. Specifically, the performance of LSA can be attributed to the linguistic surface structure, more than special characteristics of the algorithm, and embodiment findings attributed to perceptual simulations can be explained by distributional linguistic information.
705	embodied	2008	Andres, M; Olivier, E; Badets, A	Actions, Words, and Numbers: A Motor Contribution to Semantic Processing?	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Recent findings in neuroscience challenge the view that the motor system is exclusively dedicated to the control of actions, and it has been suggested that it may contribute critically to conceptual processes such as those involved in language and number representation. The aim of this review is to address this issue by illustrating some interactions between the motor system and the processing of words and numbers. First, we detail functional brain imaging studies suggesting that motor circuits may be recruited to represent the meaning of action-related words. Second, we summarize a series of experiments demonstrating some interference between the size of grip used to grasp objects and the magnitude processing of words or numbers. Third, we report data suggestive of a common representation of numbers and finger movements in the adult brain, a possible trace of the finger-counting strategies used in childhood. Altogether, these studies indicate that the motor system interacts with several aspects of word and number representations. Future research should determine whether these findings reflect a causal role of the motor system in the organization of semantic knowledge.
706	embodied	2008	Rietveld, E	Situated Normativity: The Normative Aspect of Embodied Cognition in Unreflective Action	MIND	In everyday life we often act adequately, yet without deliberation. For instance, we immediately obtain and maintain an appropriate distance from others in an elevator. The notion of normativity implied here is a very basic one, namely distinguishing adequate from inadequate, correct from incorrect, or better from worse in the context of a particular situation. In the first part of this paper I investigate such 'situated normativity' by focusing on unreflective expert action. More particularly, I use Wittgenstein's examples of craftsmen (tailors and architects) absorbed in action to introduce situated normativity. Situated normativity can be understood as the normative aspect of embodied cognition in unreflective skillful action. I develop Wittgenstein's insight that a peculiar type of affective behaviour, 'directed discontent', is essential for getting things right without reflection. Directed discontent is a reaction of appreciation in action and is introduced as a paradigmatic expression of situated normativity. In the second part I discuss Wittgenstein's ideas on the normativity of what he calls 'blind' rule-following and the 'bedrock' of immediate action. What matters for understanding the normativity of (even 'blind') rule-following, is not that one has the capacity for linguistic articulation or reflection but that one is reliably participating in a communal custom. In the third part I further investigate the complex relationships between unreflective skillful action, perception, emotion, and normativity. Part of this entails an account of the link between normativity at the level of the expert's socio-cultural practice and the individual's situated and lived normativity.
707	embodied	2008	Tomasino, B; Fink, GR; Sparing, R; Dafotakis, M; Weiss, PH	Action verbs and the primary motor cortex: A comparative TMS study of silent reading, frequency judgments, and motor imagery	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Single pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was applied to the hand area of the left primary motor cortex or, as a control, to the vertex (STIMULATION: TMS(M1) vs. TMS(vertex)) while right-handed volunteers silently read verbs related to hand actions. We examined three different tasks and time points for stimulation within the same experiment: subjects indicated with their left foot when they (i) had finished reading, (ii) had judged whether the corresponding movement involved a hand rotation after simulating the hand movement, and (iii) had judged whether they would frequently encounter the action verb in a newspaper (TASK: silent reading, motor imagery, and frequency judgment). Response times were compared between TMS(M1) and TMS(vertex) both applied at different time points after stimulus onset (DELAY: 150, 300, 450, 600, and 750 ms). TMS(M1) differentially modulated task performance: there was a significant facilitatory effect of TMS(M1) for the imagery task only (about 88 ms), with subjects responding about 10% faster (compared to TMS(vertex)). In contrast, response times for silent reading and frequency judgments were unaffected by TMS(M1). No differential effect of the time point of TMS(M1) was observed. The differential effect of TMS(M1) when subjects performed a motor imagery task (relative to performing silent reading or frequency judgments with the same set of verbs) suggests that the primary motor cortex is critically involved in processing action verbs only when subjects are simulating the corresponding movement. This task-dependent effect of hand motor cortex TMS on the processing of hand-related action verbs is discussed with respect to the notion of embodied cognition and the associationist theory. (c) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
708	embodied	2010	Jirak, D; Menz, MM; Buccino, G; Borghi, AM; Binkofski, F	Grasping language - A short story on embodiment	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	The new concept of embodied cognition theories has been enthusiastically studied by the cognitive sciences, by as well as such disparate disciplines as philosophy, anthropology, neuroscience, and robotics Embodiment theory provides the framework for ongoing discussions on the linkage between "low" cognitive processes as perception and "high" cognition as language processing and comprehension, respectively This review gives an overview along the lines of argumentation in the ongoing debate on the embodiment of language and employs an ALE meta-analysis to illustrate and weigh previous findings The collected evidence on the somatotopic activation of motor areas, abstract and concrete word processing, as well as from reported patient and timing studies emphasizes the important role of sensorimotor areas in language processing and supports the hypothesis that the motor system is activated during language comprehension (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc All rights reserved
709	embodied	2013	Brockmole, JR; Davoli, CC; Abrams, RA; Witt, JK	The World Within Reach: Effects of Hand Posture and Tool Use on Visual Cognition	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Our mental processing of the visual world is not independent of our physical actions within it. Placing objects near one's hands and interacting with objects using tools can enhance visual perception, bias and prolong the allocation of attention, and distort memory in systematic ways. This suggests that the world within our reach is cognitively different from the world beyond reach. In this review, we examine the evidence supporting this conclusion, focusing on the cognitive and neural mechanisms that underlie these effects, the parameters that may control their emergence, and their potential practical applications.
710	embodied	2012	Herbert, BM; Pollatos, O	The Body in the Mind: On the Relationship Between Interoception and Embodiment	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The processing, representation, and perception of bodily signals (interoception) plays an important role for human behavior. Theories of embodied cognition hold that higher cognitive processes operate on perceptual symbols and that concept use involves reactivations of the sensory-motor states that occur during experience with the world. Similarly, activation of interoceptive representations and meta-representations of bodily signals supporting interoceptive awareness are profoundly associated with emotional experience and cognitive functions. This article gives an overview over present findings and models on interoception and mechanisms of embodiment and highlights its relevance for disorders that are suggested to represent a translation deficit of bodily states into subjective feelings and self-awareness.
711	embodied	2011	Casasanto, D	Different Bodies, Different Minds: The Body Specificity of Language and Thought	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Do people with different kinds of bodies think differently? According to the body-specificity hypothesis (Casasanto, 2009), they should. In this article, I review evidence that right-and left-handers, who perform actions in systematically different ways, use correspondingly different areas of the brain for imagining actions and representing the meanings of action verbs. Beyond concrete actions, the way people use their hands also influences the way they represent abstract ideas with positive and negative emotional valence like "goodness," "honesty," and "intelligence" and how they communicate about these ideas in spontaneous speech and gesture. Changing how people use their right and left hands can cause them to think differently, suggesting that motoric differences between right-and left-handers are not merely correlated with cognitive differences. Body-specific patterns of motor experience shape the way we think, feel, communicate, and make decisions.
712	embodied	2009	Cook, SW; Tanenhaus, MK	Embodied communication: Speakers' gestures affect listeners' actions	COGNITION	We explored how speakers and listeners use hand gestures as a source of perceptual-motor information during naturalistic communication. After solving the Tower of Hanoi task either with real objects or on a computer, speakers explained the task to listeners. Speakers' hand gestures, but not their speech, reflected properties of the particular objects and the actions that they had previously used to solve the task. Speakers who solved the problem with real objects used more grasping handshapes and produced more curved trajectories during the explanation. Listeners who observed explanations from speakers who had previously solved the problem with real objects subsequently treated computer objects more like real objects; their mouse trajectories revealed that they lifted the objects in conjunction with moving them sideways, and this behavior was related to the particular gestures that were observed. These findings demonstrate that hand gestures are a reliable source of perceptual-motor information during human communication. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
713	embodied	2009	Froese, T; Ziemke, T	Enactive artificial intelligence: Investigating the systemic organization of life and mind	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The embodied and situated approach to artificial intelligence (Al) has matured and become a viable alternative to traditional computationalist approaches with respect to the practical goal of building artificial agents, which can behave in a robust and flexible manner under changing real-world conditions. Nevertheless, some concerns have recently been raised with regard to the sufficiency of current embodied Al for advancing our scientific understanding of intentional agency. While from an engineering or computer science perspective this limitation might not be relevant, it is of course highly relevant for Al researchers striving to build accurate models of natural cognition. We argue that the biological foundations of enactive cognitive science can provide the conceptual tools that are needed to diagnose more clearly the shortcomings of current embodied Al. In particular, taking an enactive perspective points to the need for Al to take seriously the organismic roots of autonomous agency and sense-making. We identify two necessary systemic requirements, namely constitutive autonomy and adaptivity, which lead us to introduce two design principles of enactive Al. It is argued that the development of such enactive Al poses a significant challenge to current methodologies. However, it also provides a promising way of eventually overcoming the current limitations of embodied Al, especially in terms of providing fuller models of natural embodied cognition. Finally, some practical implications and examples of the two design principles of enactive Al are also discussed. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
714	embodied	2013	Glenberg, AM; Witt, JK; Metcalfe, J	From the Revolution to Embodiment: 25 Years of Cognitive Psychology	PERSPECTIVES ON PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	In 1988, the cognitive revolution had become institutionalized: Cognition was the manipulation of abstract symbols by rules. But, much like institutionalized political parties, some of the ideas were becoming stale. Where was action? Where was the self? How could cognition be smoothly integrated with emotions, with social psychology, with development, with clinical analyses? Around that time, thinkers in linguistics, philosophy, artificial intelligence, biology, and psychology were formulating the idea that just as overt behavior depends on the specifics of the body in action, so might cognition depend on the body. Here we characterize (some would say caricature) the strengths and weaknesses of cognitive psychology of that era, and then we describe what has come to be called embodied cognition: how cognition arises through the dynamic interplay of brain controlling bodily action controlling perception, which changes the brain. We focus on the importance of action and how action shapes perception, the self, and language. Having the body in action as a central consideration for theories of cognition promises, we believe, to help unify psychology.
715	embodied	2011	Louwerse, M; Connell, L	A Taste of Words: Linguistic Context and Perceptual Simulation Predict the Modality of Words	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Previous studies have shown that object properties are processed faster when they follow properties from the same perceptual modality than properties from different modalities. These findings suggest that language activates sensorimotor processes, which, according to those studies, can only be explained by a modal account of cognition. The current paper shows how a statistical linguistic approach of word co-occurrences can also reliably predict the category of perceptual modality a word belongs to (auditory, olfactory-gustatory, visual-haptic), even though the statistical linguistic approach is less precise than the modal approach (auditory, gustatory, haptic, olfactory, visual). Moreover, the statistical linguistic approach is compared with the modal embodied approach in an experiment in which participants verify properties that share or shift modalities. Response times suggest that fast responses can best be explained by the linguistic account, whereas slower responses can best be explained by the embodied account. These results provide further evidence for the theory that conceptual processing is both linguistic and embodied, whereby less precise linguistic processes precede precise simulation processes.
716	embodied	2010	Gramann, K; Gwin, JT; Bigdely-Shamlo, N; Ferris, DP; Makeig, S	Visual evoked responses during standing and walking	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Human cognition has been shaped both by our body structure and by its complex interactions with its environment. Our cognition is thus inextricably linked to our own and others' motor behavior. To model brain activity associated with natural cognition, we propose recording the concurrent brain dynamics and body movements of human subjects performing normal actions. Here we tested the feasibility of such a mobile brain/body (MoBI) imaging approach by recording high-density electroencephalographic (EEG) activity and body movements of subjects standing or walking on a treadmill while performing a visual oddball response task. Independent component analysis of the EEG data revealed visual event-related potentials that during standing, slow walking, and fast walking did not differ across movement conditions, demonstrating the viability of recording brain activity accompanying cognitive processes during whole body movement. Non-invasive and relatively low-cost MoBI studies of normal, motivated actions might improve understanding of interactions between brain and body dynamics leading to more complete biological models of cognition.
717	embodied	2013	Thill, S; Caligiore, D; Borghi, AM; Ziemke, T; Baldassarre, G	Theories and computational models of affordance and mirror systems: An integrative review	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	Neuroscientific and psychological data suggest a close link between affordance and mirror systems in the brain. However, we still lack a full understanding of both the individual systems and their interactions. Here, we propose that the architecture and functioning of the two systems is best understood in terms of two challenges faced by complex organisms, namely: (a) the need to select among multiple affordances and possible actions dependent on context and high-level goals and (b) the exploitation of the advantages deriving from a hierarchical organisation of behaviour based on actions and action-goals. We first review and analyse the psychological and neuroscientific literature on the mechanisms and processes organisms use to deal with these challenges. We then analyse existing computational models thereof. Finally we present the design of a computational framework that integrates the reviewed knowledge. The framework can be used both as a theoretical guidance to interpret empirical data and design new experiments, and to design computational models addressing specific problems debated in the literature. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
718	embodied	2012	Lakens, D	Polarity Correspondence in Metaphor Congruency Effects: Structural Overlap Predicts Categorization Times for Bipolar Concepts Presented in Vertical Space	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	Previous research has shown that words presented on metaphor congruent locations (e.g., positive words UP on the screen and negative words DOWN on the screen) are categorized faster than words presented on metaphor incongruent locations (e.g., positive words DOWN and negative words UP). These findings have been explained in terms of an interference effect: The meaning associated with UP and DOWN vertical space can automatically interfere with the categorization of words with a metaphorically incongruent meaning. The current studies test an alternative explanation for the interaction between the vertical position of abstract concepts and the speed with which these stimuli are categorized. Research on polarity differences (basic asymmetries in the way dimensions are processed) predicts that +polar endpoints of dimensions (e.g., positive, moral, UP) are categorized faster than polar endpoints of dimensions (e.g., negative, immoral, DOWN). Furthermore, the polarity correspondence principle predicts that stimuli where polarities correspond (e.g., positive words presented UP) provide an additional processing benefit compared to stimuli where polarities do not correspond (e.g., negative words presented UP). A meta-analysis (Study 1) shows that a polarity account provides a better explanation of reaction time patterns in previous studies than an interference explanation. An experiment (Study 2) reveals that controlling for the polarity benefit of +polar words compared to polar words did not only remove the main effect of word polarity but also the interaction between word meaning and vertical position due to polarity correspondence. These results reveal that metaphor congruency effects should not be interpreted as automatic associations between vertical locations and word meaning but instead are more parsimoniously explained by their structural overlap in polarities.
719	embodied	2010	Merritt, DJ; Casasanto, D; Brannon, EM	Do monkeys think in metaphors? Representations of space and time in monkeys and humans	COGNITION	Research on the relationship between the representation of space and time has produced two contrasting proposals. ATOM posits that space and time are represented via a common magnitude system, suggesting a symmetrical relationship between space and time. According to metaphor theory, however, representations of time depend on representations of space asymmetrically. Previous findings in humans have supported metaphor theory. Here, we investigate the relationship between time and space in a nonverbal species, by testing whether non-human primates show space-time interactions consistent with metaphor theory or with ATOM. We tested two rhesus monkeys and 16 adult humans in a nonverbal task that assessed the influence of an irrelevant dimension (time or space) on a relevant dimension (space or time). In humans, spatial extent had a large effect on time judgments whereas time had a small effect on spatial judgments. In monkeys, both spatial and temporal manipulations showed large bi-directional effects on judgments. In contrast to humans, spatial manipulations in monkeys did not produce a larger effect on temporal judgments than the reverse. Thus, consistent with previous findings, human adults showed asymmetrical space-time interactions that were predicted by metaphor theory. In contrast, monkeys showed patterns that were more consistent with ATOM. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
720	embodied	2008	Siakaluk, PD; Pexman, PM; Aguilera, L; Owen, WJ; Sears, CR	Evidence for the activation of sensorimotor information during visual word recognition: The body-object interaction effect	COGNITION	We examined the effects of sensorimotor experience in two visual word recognition tasks. Body-object interaction (BOI) ratings were collected for a large set of words. These ratings assess perceptions of the ease with which a human body can physically interact with a word's referent. A set of high BOI words (e.g., mask) and a set of low BOI words (e.g., ship) were created, matched on imageability and concreteness. Facilitatory BOI effects were observed in lexical decision and phonological lexical decision tasks: responses were faster for high BOI words than for low BOI words. We discuss how our findings may be accounted for by (a) semantic feedback within the visual word recognition system, and (b) an embodied view of cognition (e.g., Barsalou's perceptual symbol systems theory), which proposes that semantic knowledge is grounded in sensorimotor interactions with the environment. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
721	embodied	2011	Fischer, U; Moeller, K; Bientzle, M; Cress, U; Nuerk, HC	Sensori-motor spatial training of number magnitude representation	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	An adequately developed spatial representation of number magnitude is associated with children's general arithmetic achievement. Therefore, a new spatial-numerical training program for kindergarten children was developed in which presentation and response were associated with a congruent spatial numerical representation. In particular, children responded by a full-body spatial movement on a digital dance mat in a magnitude comparison task. This spatial-numerical training was more effective than a non-spatial control training in enhancing children's performance on a number line estimation task and a subtest of a standardized mathematical achievement battery (TEDI-MATH). A mediation analysis suggested that these improvements were driven by an improvement of children's mental number line representation and not only by unspecific factors such as attention or motivation. These results suggest a benefit of spatial numerical associations. Rather than being a merely associated covariate, they work as an independently manipulated variable which is functional for numerical development.
722	embodied	2010	Beilock, SL; Goldin-Meadow, S	Gesture Changes Thought by Grounding It in Action	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	When people talk, they gesture. We show that gesture introduces action information into speakers' mental representations, which, in turn, affect subsequent performance. In Experiment 1, participants solved the Tower of Hanoi task (TOH1), explained (with gesture) how they solved it, and solved it again (TOH2). For all participants, the smallest disk in TOH1 was the lightest and could be lifted with one hand. For some participants (no-switch group), the disks in TOH2 were identical to those in TOH1. For others (switch group), the disk weights in TOH2 were reversed (so that the smallest disk was the heaviest and could not be lifted with one hand). The more the switch group's gestures depicted moving the smallest disk one-handed, the worse they performed on TOH2. This was not true for the no-switch group, nor for the switch group in Experiment 2, who skipped the explanation step and did not gesture. Gesturing grounds people's mental representations in action. When gestures are no longer compatible with the action constraints of a task, problem solving suffers.
723	embodied	2010	Tomasino, B; Weiss, PH; Fink, GR	TO MOVE OR NOT TO MOVE: IMPERATIVES MODULATE ACTION-RELATED VERB PROCESSING IN THE MOTOR SYSTEM	NEUROSCIENCE	It has been suggested that the processing of action-related words involves activation of the motor circuitry. Using fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging), the current study further explored the interaction between action and language by investigating whether the linguistic context, in which an action word occurs, modulates motor circuitry activity related to the processing of action words. To this end, we examined whether the presentation of hand action-related verbs as positive or negative imperatives, for example, "Do grasp" or "Don't write," modulates neural activity in the hand area of primary motor cortex (M1) or premotor cortex (Pm). Subjects (n = 19) were asked to read silently the imperative phrases, in which both meaningful action verbs and meaningless pseudo-verbs were presented, and to decide whether they made sense (lexical decision task). At the behavioral level, response times in the lexical decision task were significantly longer for negative, compared to positive, imperatives. At the neural level, activity was differentially decreased by action verbs presented as negative imperatives for the premotor and the primary motor cortex of both hemispheres. The data suggest that context (here: positive vs. negative imperatives), in which an action verb is encountered, modulates the neural activity within key areas of the motor system. The finding implies that motor simulation (or motor planning) rather than semantic processing per se may underlie previously observed motor system activation related to action verb processing. Furthermore, the current data suggest that negative imperatives may inhibit motor simulation or motor planning processes. (C) 2010 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
724	embodied	2010	Spaulding, S	Embodied Cognition and Mindreading	MIND & LANGUAGE	Recently, philosophers and psychologists defending the embodied cognition research program have offered arguments against mindreading as a general model of our social understanding. The embodied cognition arguments are of two kinds: those that challenge the developmental picture of mindreading and those that challenge the alleged ubiquity of mindreading. Together, these two kinds of arguments, if successful, would present a serious challenge to the standard account of human social understanding. In this paper, I examine the strongest of these embodied cognition arguments and argue that mindreading approaches can withstand the best of these arguments from embodied cognition.
725	embodied	2014	Fischer, MH; Shaki, S	Spatial associations in numerical cognition-From single digits to arithmetic	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	The literature on spatial associations during number processing is dominated by the SNARC (spatial-numerical association of response codes) effect. We describe spatial biases found for single digits and pairs of numbers, first in the "original" speeded parity task and then extending the scope to encompass different tasks, a range of measures, and various populations. Then we review theoretical accounts before surveying the emerging evidence for similar spatial associations during mental arithmetic. We conclude that the mental number line hypothesis and an embodied approach are useful frameworks for further studies.
726	embodied	2009	Liberman, N; Forster, J	The Effect of Psychological Distance on Perceptual Level of Construal	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Three studies examined the effect of primed psychological distance on level of perceptual construal, using Navon's paradigm of composite letters (global letters that are made of local letters). Relative to a control group, thinking of the more distant future (Study 1), about more distant spatial locations (Study 2), and about more distant social relations (Study 3) facilitated perception of global letters relative to local letters. Proximal times, spatial locations, and social relations had the opposite effect. The results are discussed within the framework of Construal Level Theory of psychological distance (Liberman & Trope, 2008; Trope & Liberman, 2003).
727	embodied	2012	Moseley, R; Carota, F; Hauk, O; Mohr, B; Pulvermuller, F	A Role for the Motor System in Binding Abstract Emotional Meaning	CEREBRAL CORTEX	Sensorimotor areas activate to action- and object-related words, but their role in abstract meaning processing is still debated. Abstract emotion words denoting body internal states are a critical test case because they lack referential links to objects. If actions expressing emotion are crucial for learning correspondences between word forms and emotions, emotion word-evoked activity should emerge in motor brain systems controlling the face and arms, which typically express emotions. To test this hypothesis, we recruited 18 native speakers and used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to compare brain activation evoked by abstract emotion words to that by face- and arm-related action words. In addition to limbic regions, emotion words indeed sparked precentral cortex, including body-part-specific areas activated somatotopically by face words or arm words. Control items, including hash mark strings and animal words, failed to activate precentral areas. We conclude that, similar to their role in action word processing, activation of frontocentral motor systems in the dorsal stream reflects the semantic binding of sign and meaning of abstract words denoting emotions and possibly other body internal states.
728	embodied	2008	Hutchins, E	The role of cultural practices in the emergence of modern human intelligence	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Innate cognitive capacities are orchestrated by cultural practices to produce high-level cognitive processes. In human activities, examples of this phenomenon range from everyday inferences about space and time to the most sophisticated reasoning in scientific laboratories. A case is examined in which chimpanzees enter into cultural practices with humans ( in experiments) in ways that appear to enable them to engage in symbol-mediated thought. Combining the cultural practices perspective with the theories of embodied cognition and enactment suggests that the chimpanzees' behaviour is actually mediated by non-symbolic representations. The possibility that non-human primates can engage in cultural practices that give them the appearance of symbol-mediated thought opens new avenues for thinking about the coevolution of human culture and human brains.
729	embodied	2011	Dove, G	On the need for embodied and dis-embodied cognition	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	This essay proposes and defends a pluralistic theory of conceptual embodiment. Our concepts are represented in at least two ways: (i) through sensorimotor simulations of our interactions with objects and events and (ii) through sensorimotor simulations of natural language processing. Linguistic representations are "dis-embodied" in the sense that they are dynamic and multimodal but, in contrast to other forms of embodied cognition, do not inherit semantic content from this embodiment. The capacity to store information in the associations and inferential relationships among linguistic representations extends our cognitive reach and provides an explanation of our ability to abstract and generalize. This theory is supported by a number of empirical considerations, including the large body of evidence from cognitive neuroscience and neuropsychology supporting a multiple semantic code explanation of imageability effects.
730	embodied	2010	Caligiore, D; Borghi, AM; Parisi, D; Baldassarre, G	TRoPICALS: A Computational Embodied Neuroscience Model of Compatibility Effects	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Perceiving objects activates the representation of their affordances. For example, experiments on compatibility effects showed that categorizing objects by producing certain handgrips (power or precision) is faster if the requested responses are compatible with the affordance elicited by the size of objects (e.g., small or large). The article presents a neural-network architecture that provides a general framework to account for compatibility effects. The model was designed with a methodological approach (computational embodied neuroscience) that aims to provide increasingly general accounts of brain and behavior (4 sources of constraints are used: neuroscientific data, behavioral data, embodied systems, reproduction of learning processes). The model is based on 4 principles of brain organization that we claim underlie most compatibility effects. First, visual perception and action are organized in the brain along a dorsal neural pathway encoding affordances and a ventral pathway encoding goals. Second, the prefrontal cortex within the ventral pathway gives a top-down bias to action selection by integrating information on stimuli, context, and goals. Third, reaction times depend on dynamic neural competitions for action selection that integrate bottom-up and top-down information. The congruence or incongruence between affordances and goals explains the different reaction times found in the experiments. Fourth, as words trigger internal simulations of their referents, they can cause compatibility effects as objects do. We validated the model by reproducing and explaining 3 types of compatibility effects and showed its heuristic power by producing 2 testable predictions. We also assessed the explicative power of the model by comparing it with related models and showed how it can be extended to account for other compatibility effects.
731	embodied	2010	Ouellet, M; Santiago, J; Funes, MJ; Lupianez, J	Thinking About the Future Moves Attention to the Right	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Previous studies have shown that past and future temporal concepts are spatially represented (past being located to the left and future to the fight in a mental time line). This study aims at further investigating the nature of this space-time conceptual metaphor, by testing whether the temporal reference of words orient spatial attention or rather prime a congruent left/right response. A modified version of the spatial cuing paradigm was used in which a word's temporal reference must be kept in working memory whilst participants carry out a spatial localization (Experiment 1) or a direction discrimination, spatial Stroop task (Experiment 2). The results showed that the mere activation of the past or future concepts both oriented attention and primed motor responses to left or right space, respectively, and these effects were independent. Moreover, in spite of the fact that such time-reference cues were nonpredictive, the use of a short and a long stimulus onset asynchrony in Experiment 3 showed that these cues modulated spatial attention as typical central cues like arrows do, suggesting a common mechanism for these two types of cuing.
732	embodied	2003	Grush, R	In Defense of some 'Cartesian' assumptions concerning the brain and its operation	BIOLOGY & PHILOSOPHY	I argue against a growing radical trend in current theoretical cognitive science that moves from the premises of embedded cognition, embodied cognition, dynamical systems theory and/or situated robotics to conclusions either to the effect that the mind is not in the brain or that cognition does not require representation, or both. I unearth the considerations at the foundation of this view: Haugeland's bandwidth-component argument to the effect that the brain is not a component in cognitive activity, and arguments inspired by dynamical systems theory and situated robotics to the effect that cognitive activity does not involve representations. Both of these strands depend not only on a shift of emphasis from higher cognitive functions to things like sensorimotor processes, but also depend on a certain understanding of how sensorimotor processes are implemented - as closed-loop control systems. I describe a much more sophisticated model of sensorimotor processing that is not only more powerful and robust than simple closed-loop control, but for which there is great evidence that it is implemented in the nervous system. The is the emulation theory of representation, according to which the brain constructs inner dynamical models, or emulators, of the body and environment which are used in parallel with the body and environment to enhance motor control and perception and to provide faster feedback during motor processes, and can be run off-line to produce imagery and evaluate sensorimotor counterfactuals. I then show that the emulation framework is immune to the radical arguments, and makes apparent why the brain is a component in the cognitive activity, and exactly what the representations are in sensorimotor control.
733	embodied	2009	Ziemke, T; Lowe, R	On the Role of Emotion in Embodied Cognitive Architectures: From Organisms to Robots	COGNITIVE COMPUTATION	The computational modeling of emotion has been an area of growing interest in cognitive robotics research in recent years, but also a source of contention regarding how to conceive of emotion and how to model it. In this paper, emotion is characterized as (a) closely connected to embodied cognition, (b) grounded in homeostatic bodily regulation, and (c) a powerful organizational principle-affective modulation of behavioral and cognitive mechanisms-that is 'useful' in both biological brains and robotic cognitive architectures. We elaborate how emotion theories and models centered on core neurological structures in the mammalian brain, and inspired by embodied, dynamical, and enactive approaches in cognitive science, may impact on computational and robotic modeling. In light of the theoretical discussion, work in progress on the development of an embodied cognitive-affective architecture for robots is presented, incorporating aspects of the theories discussed.
734	embodied	2011	Yao, B; Belin, P; Scheepers, C	Silent Reading of Direct versus Indirect Speech Activates Voice-selective Areas in the Auditory Cortex	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	In human communication, direct speech (e. g., Mary said: "I'm hungry") is perceived to be more vivid than indirect speech (e. g., Mary said [that] she was hungry). However, for silent reading, the representational consequences of this distinction are still unclear. Although many of us share the intuition of an "inner voice," particularly during silent reading of direct speech statements in text, there has been little direct empirical confirmation of this experience so far. Combining fMRI with eye tracking in human volunteers, we show that silent reading of direct versus indirect speech engenders differential brain activation in voice-selective areas of the auditory cortex. This suggests that readers are indeed more likely to engage in perceptual simulations (or spontaneous imagery) of the reported speaker's voice when reading direct speech as opposed to meaning-equivalent indirect speech statements as part of a more vivid representation of the former. Our results may be interpreted in line with embodied cognition and form a starting point for more sophisticated interdisciplinary research on the nature of auditory mental simulation during reading.
735	embodied	2010	Fernandino, L; Iacoboni, M	Are cortical motor maps based on body parts or coordinated actions? Implications for embodied semantics	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	The embodied cognition approach to the study of the mind proposes that higher order mental processes such as concept formation and language are essentially based on perceptual and motor processes. Contrary to the classical approach in cognitive science, in which concepts are viewed as amodal, arbitrary symbols, embodied semantics argues that concepts must be "grounded" in sensorimotor experiences in order to have meaning. In line with this view, neuroimaging studies have shown a roughly somatotopic pattern of activation along cortical motor areas (broadly construed) for the observation of actions involving different body parts, as well as for action-related language comprehension. These findings have been interpreted in terms of a mirror-neuron system, which automatically matches observed and executed actions. However, the somatotopic pattern of activation found in these studies is very coarse, with significant overlap between body parts, and sometimes with multiple representations for the same body part. Furthermore, the localization of the respective activations varies considerably across studies. Based on recent work on the motor cortex in monkeys, we suggest that these discrepancies result from the organization of the primate motor cortex (again, broadly construed), which probably includes maps of the coordinated actions making up the individual's motor repertoire, rather than a single, continuous map of the body. We review neurophysiological and neuroimaging data supporting this hypothesis and discuss ways in which this framework can be used to further test the links between neural mirroring and linguistic processing. (C) 2009 Published by Elsevier Inc.
736	embodied	2009	Nemirovsky, R; Ferrara, F	Mathematical imagination and embodied cognition	EDUCATIONAL STUDIES IN MATHEMATICS	The goal of this paper is to explore qualities of mathematical imagination in light of a classroom episode. It is based on the analysis of a classroom interaction in a high school Algebra class. We examine a sequence of nine utterances enacted by one of the students whom we call Carlene. Through these utterances Carlene illustrates, in our view, two phenomena: (1) juxtaposing displacements, and (2) articulating necessary cases. The discussion elaborates on the significance of these phenomena and draws relationships with the perspectives of embodied cognition and intersubjectivity.
737	embodied	2008	Nazir, TA; Boulenger, V; Roy, A; Silber, B; Jeannerod, M; Paulignan, Y	Language-induced motor perturbations during the execution of a reaching movement	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	In a recent study Boulenger et al. (2006) found that processing action verbs assisted reaching movement when the word was processed prior to movement onset and interfered with the movement when the word was processed at movement onset. The present study aimed to further corroborate the existence of such cross-talk between language processes and overt motor behaviour by demonstrating that the reaching movement can be disturbed by action words even when the words are presented delayed with respect to movement onset (50 ms and 200 ms). The results are compared to studies that show language-motor interaction in conditions where the word is presented prior to movement onset and are discussed within the context of embodied theories of language comprehension.
738	embodied	2000	Griffiths, PE; Stotz, K	How the mind grows: A developmental perspective on the biology of cognition	SYNTHESE	The 'developmental systems' perspective in biology is intended to replace the idea of a genetic program. This new perspective is strongly convergent with recent work in psychology on situated/embodied cognition and on the role of external 'scaffolding' in cognitive development. Cognitive processes, including those which can be explained in evolutionary terms, are not 'inherited' or produced in accordance with an inherited program. Instead, they are constructed in each generation through the interaction of a range of developmental resources. The attractors which emerge during development and explain robust and/or widespread outcomes are themselves constructed during the process. At no stage is there an explanatory stopping point where some resources control or program the rest of the developmental cascade. 'Human nature' is a description of how things generally turn out, not an explanation of why they turn out that way. Finally, we suggest that what is distinctive about human development is its degree of reliance on external scaffolding.
739	embodied	2014	Caramazza, A; Anzellotti, S; Strnad, L; Lingnau, A	Embodied Cognition and Mirror Neurons: A Critical Assessment	ANNUAL REVIEW OF NEUROSCIENCE, VOL 37	According to embodied cognition theories, higher cognitive abilities depend on the reenactment of sensory and motor representations. In the first part of this review, we critically analyze the central claims of embodied theories and argue that the existing behavioral and neuroimaging data do not allow investigators to discriminate between embodied cognition and classical cognitive accounts, which assume that conceptual representations are a modal and symbolic. In the second part, we review the main claims and the core electrophysiological findings typically cited in support of the mirror neuron theory of action understanding, one of the most influential examples of embodied cognition theories. In the final part, we analyze the claim that mirror neurons subserve action understanding by mapping visual representations of observed actions on motor representations, trying to clarify in what sense the representations carried by these neurons can be claimed motor.
740	embodied	2010	Witt, JK; Kemmerer, D; Linkenauger, SA; Culham, J	A Functional Role for Motor Simulation in Identifying Tools	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Embodied cognition promotes the involvement of the motor system in cognitive processing, such as tool identification. Although neuropsychological studies suggest that the motor system is not necessary for identifying tools, it may still have a functional role in tool recognition. To test this possibility, we used a motor interference task: Participants squeezed a rubber ball in one hand while naming pictures of tools and animals. Participants were faster and more accurate in naming the tools that were oriented with the handle facing away from the squeezing hand than in naming the tools that were oriented with the handle facing toward the squeezing hand. There was no effect of orientation for animals. Given that participants simulate grasping a tool with the hand closest to the handle, this result demonstrates that interfering with the ability to simulate grasping impairs tool naming and suggests that motor simulation has a functional role in tool identification.
741	embodied	2003	Ziemke, T	What's that thing called embodiment?	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY-FIFTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY, PTS 1 AND 2	Embodiment has become an important concept in many areas of cognitive science. There are, however, very different notions of exactly what embodiment is and what kind of body is required for what type of embodied cognition. Hence, while many nowadays would agree that humans are embodied cognizers, there is much less agreement on what kind of artifact could be considered embodied. This paper identifies and contrasts six different notions of embodiment which can roughly be characterized as (1) structural coupling between agent and environment, (2) historical embodiment as the result of a history of structural coupling, (3) physical embodiment, (4) organismoid embodiment, i.e. organism-like bodily form (e.g., humanoid robots), (5) organismic embodiment of autopoietic, living systems, and (6) social embodiment.
742	embodied	2012	Tschentscher, N; Hauk, O; Fischer, MH; Pulvermuller, F	You can count on the motor cortex: Finger counting habits modulate motor cortex activation evoked by numbers	NEUROIMAGE	The embodied cognition framework suggests that neural systems for perception and action are engaged during higher cognitive processes. In an event-related fMRI study, we tested this claim for the abstract domain of numerical symbol processing: is the human cortical motor system part of the representation of numbers, and is organization of numerical knowledge influenced by individual finger counting habits? Developmental studies suggest a link between numerals and finger counting habits due to the acquisition of numerical skills through finger counting in childhood. In the present study, digits 1 to 9 and the corresponding number words were presented visually to adults with different finger counting habits, i.e. left- and right-starters who reported that they usually start counting small numbers with their left and right hand, respectively. Despite the absence of overt hand movements, the hemisphere contralateral to the hand used for counting small numbers was activated when small numbers were presented. The correspondence between finger counting habits and hemispheric motor activation is consistent with an intrinsic functional link between finger counting and number processing. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
743	embodied	2012	Zanolie, K; van Dantzig, S; Boot, I; Wijnen, J; Schubert, TW; Giessner, SR; Pecher, D	Mighty metaphors: Behavioral and ERP evidence that power shifts attention on a vertical dimension	BRAIN AND COGNITION	Thinking about the abstract concept power may automatically activate the spatial up-down image schema (powerful up; powerless down) and consequently direct spatial attention to the image schema-congruent location. Participants indicated whether a word represented a powerful or powerless person (e.g. 'king' or 'servant'). Following each decision, they identified a target at the top or bottom of the visual field. In Experiment 1 participants identified the target faster when their spatial position was congruent with the perceived power of the preceding word than when it was incongruent. In Experiment 2 ERPs showed a higher N1 amplitude for congruent spatial positions. These results support the view that attention is driven to the image schema congruent location of a power word. Thus, power is partially understood in terms of vertical space, which demonstrates that abstract concepts are grounded in sensory-motor processing. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
744	embodied	2009	Ping, RM; Dhillon, S; Beilock, SL	Reach For What You Like: The Body's Role in Shaping Preferences	EMOTION REVIEW	The position of individuals' bodies (e.g., holding a pencil in the mouth in a way that either facilitates or inhibits smiling musculature) can influence their emotional reactions to the stimuli they encounter, and can even impact their explicit preferences for one item over another. In this article we begin by reviewing the literature demonstrating these effects, explore mechanisms to explain this body-preference link, and introduce new work from our lab that asks whether one's bodily or motor experiences might also shape preferences in situations where the body is not contorted in a particular position, or when there is no intention to act. Such work suggests that one consequence of perceiving an object is the automatic and covert motor simulation of acting on this object. This, in turn, provides individuals with information about how easy or hard this action would be. It transpires that we like to do what is easy, and we also prefer objects that are easier to act on. The notion that judgments of object likeability are driven by motoric information furthers embodied cognition theories by demonstrating that even our preferences are grounded in action.
745	embodied	2012	Bak, TH; Chandran, S	What wires together dies together: Verbs, actions and neurodegeneration in motor neuron disease	CORTEX	For more than a century the research on Motor Neuron Disease (MND) has been dominated by a tension between the concept of a selective, purely motor degeneration and a growing realisation of the high frequency and importance of cognitive symptoms that can culminate in dementia. The present paper aims at integrating these two, seemingly mutually exclusive interpretations of the disease. It is proposed that the cognitive and motor symptoms in MND are due to the same selective neurodegenerative process, spreading along the lines of functional connections in the nervous system. Accordingly, the most impaired aspects of cognitive function are those with the closest functional links to the motor system, a pattern explaining a disproportionate impairment of verb and action processing in this disease. The dementia associated with MND can be interpreted as the fifth major clinical presentation of MND, alongside bulbar, thoracic, upper and lower limb presentation. It follows the same rules of disease progression as other presentations, spreading contiguously from region to region, with a predominantly caudal direction. Accordingly, dementia tends to precede other presentations and is often followed by bulbar symptoms. We believe that the presented model contributes to a more accurate concept of MND, integrating cognitive and motor features within the same disease mechanism. At the same time it highlights the importance of MND for cognitive neuroscience and, in particular, for theories of embodied cognition. (C) 2011 Elsevier Srl. All rights reserved.
746	embodied	2012	Day, DV; Gordon, S; Fink, C	The Sporting Life: Exploring Organizations through the Lens of Sport	ACADEMY OF MANAGEMENT ANNALS	We selectively review the literature from the fields of organizational behavior and sport science with the overarching purpose of identifying and summarizing key themes and contributions. The literature is used to provide insights into the fundamental issues of competition (getting ahead) and cooperation (getting along) in organizations. Studies from the organization sciences that have incorporated individual and team data from the various fields of sport are reviewed and organized by topic into succession effects, motivation and performance, and studies of individual and team performance changes over time. In addition, selected studies from the sport science literature are reviewed from the topic areas of the "hot-hand" effect, choking under pressure, passion for life activities, and difficult career transitions. The evidence presents a clear argument that greater integration across the fields of organization and sport science is needed. Areas of future research consideration with regard to embodied cognition and emotions as well as networked approaches to team processes are proposed.
747	embodied	2011	Rabinovich, MI; Varona, P	Robust transient dynamics and brain functions	FRONTIERS IN COMPUTATIONAL NEUROSCIENCE	In the last few decades several concepts of dynamical systems theory (DST) have guided psychologists, cognitive scientists, and neuroscientists to rethink about sensory motor behavior and embodied cognition. A critical step in the progress of DST application to the brain (supported by modern methods of brain imaging and multi-electrode recording techniques) has been the transfer of its initial success in motor behavior to mental function, i.e., perception, emotion, and cognition. Open questions from research in genetics, ecology, brain sciences, etc., have changed DST itself and lead to the discovery of a new dynamical phenomenon, i.e., reproducible and robust transients that are at the same time sensitive to informational signals. The goal of this review is to describe a new mathematical framework-heteroclinic sequential dynamics-to understand self-organized activity in the brain that can explain certain aspects of robust itinerant behavior. Specifically, we discuss a hierarchy of coarse-grain models of mental dynamics in the form of kinetic equations of modes. These modes compete for resources at three levels: (i) within the same modality, (ii) among different modalities from the same family (like perception), and (iii) among modalities from different families (like emotion and cognition). The analysis of the conditions for robustness, i. e., the structural stability of transient (sequential) dynamics, give us the possibility to explain phenomena like the finite capacity of our sequential working memory-a vital cognitive function-, and to find specific dynamical signatures-different kinds of instabilities-of several brain functions and mental diseases.
748	embodied	2010	Cangelosi, A	Grounding language in action and perception: From cognitive agents to humanoid robots	PHYSICS OF LIFE REVIEWS	In this review we concentrate on a grounded approach to the modeling of cognition through the methodologies of cognitive agents and developmental robotics. This work will focus on the modeling of the evolutionary and developmental acquisition of linguistic capabilities based on the principles of symbol grounding. We review cognitive agent and developmental robotics models of the grounding of language to demonstrate their consistency with the empirical and theoretical evidence on language grounding and embodiment, and to reveal the benefits of such an approach in the design of linguistic capabilities in cognitive robotic agents. In particular, three different models will be discussed, where the complexity of the agent's sensorimotor and cognitive system gradually increases: from a multi-agent simulation of language evolution, to a simulated robotic agent model for symbol grounding transfer, to a model of language comprehension in the humanoid robot iCub. The review also discusses the benefits of the use of humanoid robotic platform, and specifically of the open source iCub platform, for the study of embodied cognition. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
749	embodied	2009	Schubert, TW; Koole, SL	The embodied self: Making a fist enhances men's power-related self-conceptions	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	In line with recent theories of embodied cognition, the authors propose that the self-concept may be embodied in sensory-motor representations. To test this notion, two studies investigated the effects of bodily feedback from a gesture associated with power (making a fist) on the self-concept. As expected, making a fist led male participants to perceive themselves as more assertive and esteemed (Study 1) and to display stronger associations between the self-concept and power (Study 2), while these effects were absent among female participants. The gender difference may reflect that men are more prone to use physical force to gain social influence. The results indicate that people's conceptions of themselves are partly grounded in bodily experiences. (c) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
750	embodied	2009	Chandler, J; Schwarz, N	How extending your middle finger affects your perception of others: Learned movements influence concept accessibility	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Body movements both express and influence how people feel and think. Conceptualizations of this bidirectional influence assume that movement-concept associations can be innate or learned, although evidence for learned associations remained ambiguous. Providing a conservative test of learned movement-concept associations, two studies investigate the influence of culture-specific body movements, which involve an arbitrary relationship between movements and associated concepts. Paralleling the influence of hostility primes, extending the middle finger influenced the interpretation of ambiguously aggressive behaviors as hostile, but did not influence unrelated trait judgments (Study 1). Paralleling the effects of global evaluative primes, upward extension of the thumb resulted in more positive evaluations of the same target along all trait dimensions and higher liking of the target (Study 2). (C) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
751	embodied	2007	Connell, L	Representing object colour in language comprehension	COGNITION	Embodied theories of cognition hold that mentally representing something red engages the neural subsystems that respond to environmental perception of that colour. This paper examines whether implicit perceptual information on object colour is represented during sentence comprehension even though doing so does not necessarily facilitate task performance. After reading a sentence that implied a particular colour for a given object, participants were presented with a picture of the object that either matched or mismatched the implied colour. When asked if the pictured object was mentioned in the preceding sentence, people's responses were faster when the colours mismatched than when they matched, suggesting that object colour is represented differently to other object properties such as shape and orientation. A distinction between stable and unstable embodied representations is proposed to allow embodied theories to account for these findings. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
752	embodied	2011	Sevdalis, V; Keller, PE	Captured by motion: Dance, action understanding, and social cognition	BRAIN AND COGNITION	In this review article, we summarize the main findings from empirical studies that used dance-related forms of rhythmical full body movement as a research tool for investigating action understanding and social cognition. This work has proven to be informative about behavioral and brain mechanisms that mediate links between perceptual and motor processes invoked during the observation and execution of spatially-temporally coordinated action and interpersonal interaction. The review focuses specifically on processes related to (a) motor experience and expertise, (b) learning and memory, (c) action, intention, and emotion understanding, and (d) audio-visual synchrony and timing. Consideration is given to the relationship between research on dance and more general embodied cognition accounts of action understanding and social cognition. Finally, open questions and issues concerning experimental design are discussed with a view to stimulating future research on social-cognitive aspects of dance. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
753	embodied	2014	Maes, PJ; Leman, M; Palmer, C; Wanderley, MM	Action-based effects on music perception	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The classical, disembodied approach to music cognition conceptualizes action and perception as separate, peripheral processes. In contrast, embodied accounts of music cognition emphasize the central role of the close coupling of action and perception. It is a commonly established fact that perception spurs action tendencies. We present a theoretical framework that captures the ways in which the human motor system and its actions can reciprocally influence the perception of music. The cornerstone of this framework is the common coding theory, postulating a representational overlap in the brain between the planning, the execution, and the perception of movement. The integration of action and perception in so-called internal models is explained as a result of associative learning processes. Characteristic of internal models is that they allow intended or perceived sensory states to be transferred into corresponding motor commands (inverse modeling), and vice versa, to predict the sensory outcomes of planned actions (forward modeling). Embodied accounts typically refer to inverse modeling to explain action effects on music perception (Leman, 2007). We extend this account by pinpointing forward modeling as an alternative mechanism by which action can modulate perception. We provide an extensive overview of recent empirical evidence in support of this idea. Additionally, we demonstrate that motor dysfunctions can cause perceptual disabilities, supporting the main idea of the paper that the human motor system plays a functional role in auditory perception. The finding that music perception is shaped by the human motor system and its actions suggests that the musical mind is highly embodied. However, we advocate for a more radical approach to embodied (music) cognition in the sense that it needs to be considered as a dynamical process, in which aspects of action, perception, introspection, and social interaction are of crucial importance.
754	embodied	2012	Anderson, ML; Richardson, MJ; Chemero, A	Eroding the Boundaries of Cognition: Implications of Embodiment	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	To accept that cognition is embodied is to question many of the beliefs traditionally held by cognitive scientists. One key question regards the localization of cognitive faculties. Here we argue that for cognition to be embodied and sometimes embedded, means that the cognitive faculty cannot be localized in a brain area alone. We review recent research on neural reuse, the 1/f structure of human activity, tool use, group cognition, and social coordination dynamics that we believe demonstrates how the boundary between the different areas of the brain, the brain and body, and the body and environment is not only blurred but indeterminate. In turn, we propose that cognition is supported by a nested structure of task-specific synergies, which are softly assembled from a variety of neural, bodily, and environmental components (including other individuals), and exhibit interaction dominant dynamics.
755	embodied	2008	Masson, MEJ; Bub, DN; Warren, CM	Kicking calculators: Contribution of embodied representations to sentence comprehension	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	Evocation of motor representations during sentence comprehension was examined by training subjects to make a hand action in response to a visual cue while listening to a sentence. Sentences referred to manipulable objects that were either related or unrelated to the cued action. Related actions pertained either to the function of the object or to its volumetric properties (e.g., shape). The results demonstrate priming of hand actions even though the sentences referred to non-manual interactions with manipulable objects. When sentences described an attentional interaction (looking at the calculator), only functional actions were primed. Sentences describing a non-manual physical interaction (kicking the calculator) primed volumetric as well as functional actions. We describe how seemingly irrelevant motor representations can play a role in constructing sentence meaning. (C) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
756	embodied	2007	Good, JMM	The affordances for social psychology of the ecological approach to social knowing	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	This paper examines the engagement of theory with mainstream social psychology in terms of developments in social cognition and perception. The particular focus is the development and reception of the 'ecological' or 'mutualist' approach to social perception and cognition. The introduction of some terms of central concern is followed by a brief review of some of the ontological and epistemological issues that have perplexed empirical studies of social knowing. This is followed by documentation and appraisal of attempts over the past twenty-five years to 'socialize' ecological psychology and to address the role of language and culture in social knowing. The final section considers some of the conceptual and methodological constraints that have impeded the promulgation of an ecological perspective. Although ecological notions have failed to make much impact on the mainstream, it is concluded that the growing interest in embedded and embodied cognition suggests the continuing relevance of the ecological approach with its relational ontology and emphasis on the reciprocity of perception and action.
757	embodied	2013	Fustos, J; Gramann, K; Herbert, BM; Pollatos, O	On the embodiment of emotion regulation: interoceptive awareness facilitates reappraisal	SOCIAL COGNITIVE AND AFFECTIVE NEUROSCIENCE	The ability to cognitively regulate emotional responses to aversive events is essential for mental and physical health. One prerequisite of successful emotion regulation is the awareness of emotional states, which in turn is associated with the awareness of bodily signals [interoceptive awareness (IA)]. This study investigated the neural dynamics of reappraisal of emotional responses in 28 participants who differed with respect to IA. Electroencephalography was used to characterize the time course of emotion regulation. We found that reappraisal was accompanied by reduced arousal and significant modulation of late neural responses. What is more, higher IA facilitated downregulation of affect and was associated with more pronounced modulation of underlying neural activity. Therefore, we conclude that IA not only advances the consolidation of somatic markers required for guiding individual behaviour but also creates processing advantages in tasks referring to these bodily markers.
758	embodied	2012	Adam, H; Galinsky, AD	Enclothed cognition	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	We introduce the term "enclothed cognition" to describe the systematic influence that clothes have on the wearer's psychological processes. We offer a potentially unifying framework to integrate past findings and capture the diverse impact that clothes can have on the wearer by proposing that enclothed cognition involves the co-occurrence of two independent factors- the symbolic meaning of the clothes and the physical experience of wearing them. As a first test of our enclothed cognition perspective, the current research explored the effects of wearing a lab coat. A pretest found that a lab coat is generally associated with attentiveness and carefulness. We therefore predicted that wearing a lab coat would increase performance on attention-related tasks. In Experiment 1, physically wearing a lab coat increased selective attention compared to not wearing a lab coat. In Experiments 2 and 3. wearing a lab coat described as a doctor's coat increased sustained attention compared to wearing a lab coat described as a painter's coat, and compared to simply seeing or even identifying with a lab coat described as a doctor's coat. Thus, the current research suggests a basic principle of enclothed cognition-it depends on both the symbolic meaning and the physical experience of wearing the clothes. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
759	embodied	2012	Davoli, CC; Brockmole, JR; Witt, JK	Compressing Perceived Distance With Remote Tool-Use: Real, Imagined, and Remembered	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Reaching for an object with a tool has been shown to cause a compressed perception of space just beyond arm's reach. It is not known, however, whether tools that have distal, detached effects at far distances can cause this same perceptual distortion. We examined this issue in the current study with targets placed up to 30m away. Participants who illuminated targets with a laser pointer or imagined doing so consistently judged the targets to be closer than those who pointed at the targets with a baton. Furthermore, perceptual distortions that arose from tool-use persisted in memory beyond the moment of interaction. These findings indicate that remote interactions can have the same perceptual consequences as physical interactions, and have implications for an action-specific account of perception.
760	embodied	2012	Cartmill, EA; Beilock, S; Goldin-Meadow, S	A word in the hand: action, gesture and mental representation in humans and non-human primates	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The movements we make with our hands both reflect our mental processes and help to shape them. Our actions and gestures can affect our mental representations of actions and objects. In this paper, we explore the relationship between action, gesture and thought in both humans and non-human primates and discuss its role in the evolution of language. Human gesture (specifically representational gesture) may provide a unique link between action and mental representation. It is kinaesthetically close to action and is, at the same time, symbolic. Non-human primates use gesture frequently to communicate, and do so flexibly. However, their gestures mainly resemble incomplete actions and lack the representational elements that characterize much of human gesture. Differences in the mirror neuron system provide a potential explanation for non-human primates' lack of representational gestures; the monkey mirror system does not respond to representational gestures, while the human system does. In humans, gesture grounds mental representation in action, but there is no evidence for this link in other primates. We argue that gesture played an important role in the transition to symbolic thought and language in human evolution, following a cognitive leap that allowed gesture to incorporate representational elements.
761	embodied	2012	Vacharkulksemsuk, T; Fredrickson, BL	Strangers in sync: Achieving embodied rapport through shared movements	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper examines the emergence of behavioral synchrony among strangers in the context of self-disclosure, and their path in predicting interaction quality. Specifically, we hypothesize that behavioral synchrony mediates the direct effect of self-disclosure on the development of embodied rapport. Same-sex stranger pairs (n = 94) were randomly assigned to a video recorded self-disclosure or control condition, and afterward each member rated their social interaction. Following the procedure used by Bernieri. Reznick, and Rosenthal (1988), two trained judges independently watched each video record and rated each pair interaction on behavioral synchrony. Bootstrapping analyses provide support for the hypothesized mediating effect of behavioral synchrony, which emerged as independent of the effects of self-other overlap and positive affect. The authors discuss implications of behavioral synchrony for relationship formation processes and the inevitable entwinement of behavior and judgments in light of embodied cognition. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
762	embodied	2011	Sharifian, F	Cultural Conceptualisations and Language: Theoretical Framework and Applications	CULTURAL CONCEPTUALISATIONS AND LANGUAGE: THEORETICAL FRAMEWORK AND APPLICATIONS	0
763	embodied	2007	Vermeulen, N; Niedenthal, PM; Luminet, O	Switching between sensory and affective systems incurs processing costs	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Recent models of the conceptual system hold that concepts are grounded in simulations of actual experiences with instances of those concepts in sensory-motor systems (e.g., Barsalou, 1999, 2003; Solomon & Barsalou, 2001). Studies supportive of such a view have shown that verifying a property of a concept in one modality, and then switching to verify a property of a different concept in a different modality generates temporal processing costs similar to the cost of switching modalities in perception. In addition to non-emotional concepts, the present experiment investigated switching costs in verifying properties of positive and negative (emotional) concepts. Properties of emotional concepts were taken from vision, audition, and the affective system. Parallel to switching costs in neutral concepts, the study showed that for positive and negative concepts, verifying properties from different modalities produced processing costs such that reaction times were longer and error rates were higher. Importantly, this effect was observed when switching from the affective system to sensory modalities, and vice-versa. These results support the embodied cognition view of emotion in humans.
764	embodied	2001	Noice, H; Noice, T	Learning dialogue with and without movement	MEMORY & COGNITION	In two experiments, we investigated the contribution of physical movement to the processing and eventual retrieval of dramatic dialogue by untrained nonactors after they had received only brief procedural coaching. It was found that participants who processed a script by reading the text aloud while simultaneously moving in accordance with a director's instructions retained more material than did those who used verbal communication only or controls who deliberately memorized the same material. Furthermore, when the recall of the participants in the moving condition was analyzed on a speech-by-speech basis, the results showed significantly greater memory for speeches that had been accompanied by movement than for speeches during which the same participant had remained in one place. These findings are discussed in the contexts of embodied cognition and multimodal memory models.
765	embodied	2012	Davoli, CC; Brockmole, JR; Goujon, A	A bias to detail: how hand position modulates visual learning and visual memory	MEMORY & COGNITION	In this report, we examine whether and how altered aspects of perception and attention near the hands affect one's learning of to-be-remembered visual material. We employed the contextual cuing paradigm of visual learning in two experiments. Participants searched for a target embedded within images of fractals and other complex geometrical patterns while either holding their hands near to or far from the stimuli. When visual features and structural patterns remained constant across to-be-learned images (Exp. 1), no difference emerged between hand postures in the observed rates of learning. However, when to-be-learned scenes maintained structural pattern information but changed in color (Exp. 2), participants exhibited substantially slower rates of learning when holding their hands near the material. This finding shows that learning near the hands is impaired in situations in which common information must be abstracted from visually unique images, suggesting a bias toward detail-oriented processing near the hands.
766	embodied	2010	Hostetter, AB; Alibali, MW	Language, gesture, action! A test of the Gesture as Simulated Action framework	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	The Gesture as Simulated Action (GSA) framework (Hostetter & Alibali, 2008) holds that representational gestures are produced when actions are simulated as part of thinking and speaking. Accordingly, speakers should gesture more when describing images with which they have specific physical experience than when describing images that are less closely tied to action. Experiment 1 supported this hypothesis by showing that speakers produced more representational gestures when describing patterns they had physically made than when describing patterns they had only viewed. Experiment 2 replicated this finding and ruled out the possibility that the effect is due to decreased opportunity for verbal rehearsal when speakers physically made the patterns. Experiment 3 ruled out the possibility that the effect in Experiments 1 and 2 was due to motor priming from making the patterns. Taken together, these experiments support the central claim of the GSA framework by suggesting that speakers gesture when they express thoughts that involve simulations of actions. (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
767	embodied	2014	Zwaan, RA	Embodiment and language comprehension: reframing the discussion	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The debate on whether language comprehension involves the manipulation of abstract symbols or is grounded in perception and action has reached an impasse, with authors from different theoretical persuasions unable to agree on the diagnostic value of empirical findings. To escape this impasse, I propose a pluralist view of cognition that encompasses abstract and grounded symbols. The contributions of these symbol types to language comprehension vary as a function of the degree to which language use is embedded in the environment. I distinguish five levels of embeddedness: demonstration, instruction, projection, displacement, and abstraction. Only through a closer analysis of context will we make significant progress toward understanding language comprehension and cognition in general.
768	embodied	2012	Fay, AJ; Maner, JK	Warmth, spatial proximity, and social attachment: The embodied perception of a social metaphor	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Recent experiments in embodied social cognition suggest a fundamental link between physical warmth and social affiliation. Findings from two experiments support the hypothesis that physical warmth serves as a symbolic cue signaling the close proximity of a source of affiliation. In Experiment 1, participants perceived a warm object as being physically closer than a cold object. In Experiment 2, being primed with warmth led participants to display higher levels of self-reported social affiliative motivation. In both studies, effects were moderated by individual differences in attachment style; priming effects were pronounced among those low in attachment avoidance and those high in attachment anxiety. These findings contribute to a growing literature suggesting deep connections between perception, physical experience, and social cognition. Published by Elsevier Inc.
769	embodied	2010	Pezzulo, G; Barca, L; Bocconi, AL; Borghi, AM	When affordances climb into your mind: Advantages of motor simulation in a memory task performed by novice and expert rock climbers	BRAIN AND COGNITION	Does the sight of multiple climbing holds laid along a path activate a motor simulation of climbing that path? One way of testing whether multiple affordances and their displacement influence the formation of a motor simulation is to study acquired motor skills. We used a behavioral task in which expert and novice rock climbers were shown three routes: an easy route, a route impossible to climb but perceptually salient, and a difficult route. After a distraction task, they were then given a recall test in which they had to write down the sequence of holds composing each route. We found no difference between experts and novices on the easy and impossible routes, whereas on the difficult route, the performance of experts was better than that of novices. This suggests that seeing a climbing wall activates a motor, embodied simulation, which relies not on perceptual salience, but on motor competence. More importantly, our results show that the capability to form this simulation is modulated by individuals' motor repertoire and expertise, and that this strongly impacts recall. (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
770	embodied	2009	Yang, SJ; Gallo, DA; Beilock, SL	Embodied Memory Judgments: A Case of Motor Fluency	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	It is well known that perceptual and conceptual fluency can influence episodic memory judgments. Here, the authors asked whether fluency arising from the motor system also impacts recognition memory. Past research has shown that the perception of letters automatically activates motor programs of typing actions in skilled typists. In this study, expert typists made more false recognition errors to letter dyads which would be easier or more fluent to type than nonfluent dyads, while no typing action was involved (Experiment 1). This effect was minimized with a secondary motor task that implicated the same fingers that would be used to type the presented dyads, but this effect remained with a noninterfering motor task (Experiment 2). Typing novices, as a comparison group, did not show fluency effects in recognition memory. These findings suggest that memory is influenced by covert simulation of actions associated with the items being judged-even when there is no intention to act-and highlight the intimate connections between higher level cognition and action.
771	embodied	2009	Green, TM; Ribarsky, W; Fisher, B	Building and applying a human cognition model for visual analytics	INFORMATION VISUALIZATION	It is well known that visual analytics addresses the difficulty of evaluating and processing large quantities of information. Less often discussed are the increasingly complex analytic and reasoning processes that must be applied in order to accomplish that goal. Success of the visual analytics approach will require us to develop new visualization models that predict how computational processes might facilitate human insight and guide the flow of human reasoning. In this paper, we seek to advance visualization methods by proposing a framework for human 'higher cognition' that extends more familiar perceptual models. Based on this approach, we suggest guidelines for the development of visual interfaces that better integrate complementary capabilities of humans and computers. Although many of these recommendations are novel, some can be found in existing visual analytics applications. In the latter case, much of the value of our contribution lies in the deeper rationale that the model provides for those principles. Lastly, we assess these visual analytics guidelines through the evaluation of several visualization examples. Information Visualization (2009) 8, 1-13. doi: 10.1057/palgrave.ivs.2008.28
772	embodied	2008	Wheeler, M; Clark, A	Culture, embodiment and genes: unravelling the triple helix	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Much recent work stresses the role of embodiment and action in thought and reason, and celebrates the power of transmitted cultural and environmental structures to transform the problem-solving activity required of individual brains. By apparent contrast, much work in evolutionary psychology has stressed the selective fit of the biological brain to an ancestral environment of evolutionary adaptedness, with an attendant stress upon the limitations and cognitive biases that result. On the face of it, this suggests either a tension or, at least, a mismatch, with the symbiotic dyad of cultural evolution and embodied cognition. In what follows, we explore this mismatch by focusing on three key ideas: cognitive niche construction; cognitive modularity; and the existence (or otherwise) of an evolved universal human nature. An appreciation of the power and scope of the first, combined with consequently more nuanced visions of the latter two, allow us to begin to glimpse a much richer vision of the combined interactive potency of biological and cultural evolution for active, embodied agents.
773	embodied	2013	Cardona, JF; Gershanik, O; Gelormini-Lezama, C; Houck, AL; Cardona, S; Kargieman, L; Trujillo, N; Arevalo, A; Amoruso, L; Manes, F; Ibanez, A	Action-verb processing in Parkinson's disease: new pathways for motor-language coupling	BRAIN STRUCTURE & FUNCTION	Recent studies suggest that action-verb processing is particularly affected in early stage Parkinson's disease (PD), highlighting the potential role of subcortical areas in language processing and in the semantic integration of actions. However, this disorder-related language impairment is frequently unrecognized by clinicians and often remains untreated. Early detection of action-language processing deficits could be critical for diagnosing and developing treatment strategies for PD. In this article, we review how action-verb processing is affected in PD and propose a model in which multiple and parallel frontotemporal circuits between the cortex and the basal ganglia provide the anatomic substrate for supporting action-language processing. We hypothesize that contextual coupling of action-language networks are partially dependent on cortical-subcortical integration, and not only on somatotopic motor cortical organization or in a mirror neuron system. This hypothesis is supported by both experimental and clinical evidence. Then, we identify further research steps that would help to determine the reliability of action-language impairments as an early marker of PD. Finally, theoretical implications for clinical assessment and for models of action-language interaction (action-perception cycle theories, mirror system models of language, and embodied cognition approaches to language) are discussed.
774	embodied	2012	Moreau, D; Clerc, J; Mansy-Dannay, A; Guerrien, A	Enhancing Spatial Ability Through Sport Practice Evidence for an Effect of Motor Training on Mental Rotation Performance	JOURNAL OF INDIVIDUAL DIFFERENCES	This experiment investigated the relationship between mental rotation and sport training. Undergraduate university students (n = 62) completed the Mental Rotation Test (Vandenberg & Kuse, 1978), before and after a 10-month training in two different sports, which either involved extensive mental rotation ability (wrestling group) or did not (running group). Both groups showed comparable results in the pretest, but the wrestling group outperformed the running group in the posttest. As expected from previous studies, males outperformed women in the pretest and the posttest. Besides, self-reported data gathered after both sessions indicated an increase in adaptive strategies following training in wrestling, but not subsequent to training in running. These findings demonstrate the significant effect of training in particular sports on mental rotation performance, thus showing consistency with the notion of cognitive plasticity induced from motor training involving manipulation of spatial representations. They are discussed within an embodied cognition framework.
775	embodied	2011	Hoenig, K; Muller, C; Herrnberger, B; Sim, EJ; Spitzer, M; Ehret, G; Kiefer, M	Neuroplasticity of semantic representations for musical instruments in professional musicians	NEUROIMAGE	Professional musicians constitute a model par excellence for understanding experience-dependent plasticity in the human brain, particularly in the auditory domain. Their intensive sensorimotor experience with musical instruments has been shown to entail plastic brain alterations in cortical perceptual and motor maps. It remains an important question whether this neuroplasticity might extend beyond basic perceptual and motor functions and even shape higher-level conceptualizations by which we conceive our physical and social world. Here we show using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) that conceptual processing of visually presented musical instruments activates auditory association cortex encompassing right posterior superior temporal gyms. as well as adjacent areas in the superior temporal sulcus and the upper part of middle temporal gyrus (pSTG/MTG) only in musicians, but not in musical laypersons. These areas in and adjacent to auditory association cortex were not only recruited by conceptual processing of musical instruments during visual object recognition, but also by auditory perception of real sounds. Hence, the unique intensive experience of musicians with musical instruments establishes a link between auditory perceptual and conceptual brain systems. Experience-driven neuroplasticity in musicians is thus not confined to alterations of perceptual and motor maps, but even leads to the establishment of higher-level semantic representations for musical instruments in and adjacent to auditory association cortex. These findings highlight the eminent importance of sensory and motor experience for acquiring rich concepts. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
776	embodied	2010	Ansorge, U; Kiefer, M; Khalid, S; Grassl, S; Konig, P	Testing the theory of embodied cognition with subliminal words	COGNITION	In the current study, we tested the embodied cognition theory (ECT). The ECT postulates mandatory sensorimotor processing of words when accessing their meaning. We test that prediction by investigating whether invisible (i.e., subliminal) spatial words activate responses based on their long-term and short-term meaning. Masking of the words is used to prevent word visibility and intentional elaboration of the words' semantic content. In this way, masking specifically isolates mandatory sensorimotor processing of words as predicted by the ECT. Do spatial subliminal words activate responses nonetheless? In Experiment 1, we demonstrate a spatial congruence effect of the invisible words if they precede visible target words. In Experiment 2, we show that masked words activate responses based on their long-term meaning. In Experiment 3, we demonstrate that masked words are also processed according to their short-term response meaning. We conclude that the ECT is supported by our findings and discuss implications of our results for embodied theories of semantic word processing and masked priming experiments. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
777	embodied	2010	Springer, A; Prinz, W	Action semantics modulate action prediction	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Previous studies have demonstrated that action prediction involves an internal action simulation that runs time-locked to the real action. The present study replicates and extends these findings by indicating a real-time simulation process (Graf et al., 2007), which can be differentiated from a similarity-based evaluation of internal action representations. Moreover, results showed that action semantics modulate action prediction accuracy. The semantic effect was specified by the processing of action verbs and concrete nouns (Experiment 1) and, more specifically, by the dynamics described by action verbs (Experiment 2) and the speed described by the verbs (e.g., oto catcho vs. oto graspo vs. oto stretcho; Experiment 3). These results propose a linkage between action simulation and action semantics as two yet unrelated domains, a view that coincides with a recent notion of a close link between motor processes and the understanding of action language.
778	embodied	2009	Kahol, K; Vankipuram, M; Smith, ML	Cognitive simulators for medical education and training	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	Simulators for honing procedural skills (such as surgical skills and central venous catheter placement) have proven to be valuable tools for medical educators and students. While Such simulations represent an effective paradigm in surgical education, there is an opportunity to add a layer of cognitive exercises to these basic simulations that can facilitate robust skill learning in residents. This paper describes a controlled methodology, inspired by neuropsychological assessment tasks and embodied cognition, to develop cognitive simulators for laparoscopic surgery. These Simulators provide psychomotor skill training and offer the additional challenge of accomplishing cognitive tasks in realistic environments. A generic framework for design, development and evaluation of such simulators is described. The presented framework is generalizable and can be applied to different task domains. It is independent of the types of sensors, simulation environment and feedback mechanisms that the simulators use. A proof of concept of the framework is provided through developing a Simulator that includes cognitive variations to a basic psychomotor task. The results Of two pilot Studies are presented that show the validity of the methodology in providing an effective evaluation and learning environments for surgeons. (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
779	embodied	2009	Schubert, TW	A New Conception of Spatial Presence: Once Again, with Feeling	COMMUNICATION THEORY	Recent theories of telepresence or spatial presence in a virtual environment argue that it is a subjective experience of being in the virtual environment, and that it is the outcome of constructing a mental model of the self as being located in the virtual environment. However, current theories fail to explain how the subjective experience of spatial presence emerges from the unconscious spatial cognition processes. To fill this gap, spatial presence is conceptualized here as a cognitive feeling. From this perspective, spatial presence is a feedback from unconscious cognitive processes that informs conscious thought about the state of the spatial cognitive system. Current theorizing on the origins and properties of cognitive feelings is reviewed and applied to spatial presence. This new conception of presence draws attention to the functionality of spatial presence for judgments, decisions, and behavior. By highlighting the distinction between spatial cognitive processes and the subjective feeling of spatial presence, the use of questionnaires is theoretically grounded and legitimized as a method of presence research. Finally, embodied cognition theories are reviewed to identify cues that give rise to spatial presence.
780	embodied	2008	Kaschak, MP; Borreggine, KL	Temporal dynamics of the action-sentence compatibility effect	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	A number of recent studies have demonstrated variants of the action-sentence compatibility effect (ACE), wherein the execution of a motor response is facilitated by the comprehension of sentences that describe actions taking place in the same direction as the motor response (e.g., a sentence about action towards one's body facilitates the execution of an arm movement towards the body). This paper presents an experiment that explores how the timing of the motor response during the processing of sentences affects the magnitude of the ACE that is observed. The results show that the ACE occurs when the motor response is executed at an early point in the comprehension of the sentence, disappears for a time, and then reappears when the motor response is executed right before the end of the sentence. These data help to refine our understanding of the temporal dynamics involved in the activation and use of motor information during sentence comprehension.
781	embodied	2013	Carriere, JSA; Seli, P; Smilek, D	Wandering in Both Mind and Body: Individual Differences in Mind Wandering and Inattention Predict Fidgeting	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-REVUE CANADIENNE DE PSYCHOLOGIE EXPERIMENTALE	Anecdotal reports suggest that during periods of inattention or mind wandering, people tend to experience increased fidgeting. In four studies, we examined whether individual differences in the tendency to be inattentive and to mind wander in everyday life are related to the tendency to make spontaneous and involuntary movements (i.e., to fidget). To do so, we developed self-report measures of spontaneous and deliberate mind wandering, as well as a self-report scale to index fidgeting. In addition, we used several existing self-report measures of inattentiveness, attentional control, and memory failures. Across our studies, a series of multiple regression analyses indicated that fidgeting was uniquely predicted by inattentiveness and spontaneous mind wandering but not by other related factors, including deliberate mind wandering, attentional control, and memory failures. As a result, we suggest that only spontaneously wandering thoughts are related to a wandering body.
782	embodied	2012	Andres, M; Michaux, N; Pesenti, M	Common substrate for mental arithmetic and finger representation in the parietal cortex	NEUROIMAGE	The history of mathematics provides several examples of the use of fingers to count or calculate. These observations converge with developmental data showing that fingers play a critical role in the acquisition of arithmetic knowledge. Further studies evidenced specific interference of finger movements with arithmetic problem solving in adults, raising the question of whether or not finger and number manipulations rely on common brain areas. In the present study, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to investigate the possible overlap between the brain areas involved in mental arithmetic and those involved in finger discrimination. Solving subtraction and multiplication problems was found to increase cerebral activation bilaterally in the horizontal part of the intraparietal sulcus (hIPS) and in the posterior part of the superior parietal lobule (PSPL). Finger discrimination was associated with increased activity in a bilateral occipito-parieto-precentral network extending from the extrastriate body area to the primary somatosensory and motor cortices. A conjunction analysis showed common areas for mental arithmetic and finger representation in the hIPS and PSPL bilaterally. Voxelwise correlations further showed that finger discrimination and mental arithmetic induced a similar pattern of activity within the parietal areas only. Pattern similarity was more important for the left than for the right hIPS and for subtraction than for multiplication. These findings provide the first evidence that the brain circuits involved in finger representation also underlie arithmetic operations in adults. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
783	embodied	2012	Nemirovsky, R; Rasmussen, C; Sweeney, G; Wawro, M	When the Classroom Floor Becomes the Complex Plane: Addition and Multiplication as Ways of Bodily Navigation	JOURNAL OF THE LEARNING SCIENCES	In this article we contribute a perspective on mathematical embodied cognition consistent with a phenomenological understanding of perception and body motion. It is based on the analysis of 4 selected episodes in 1 session of an undergraduate mathematics class. The theme of this particular class session was the geometric interpretation of the addition and multiplication of complex numbers. On the basis of these episodes, the article examines 2 conjectures: (a) The mathematical insights developed by an individual or a group are expressed in and constituted by perceptuo-motor activity, and (b) the learning of mathematical ideas is shaped in nondeterministic ways by the setting or learning environment.
784	embodied	2012	Weiss, S; Mueller, HM	"Too many betas do not spoil the broth": the role of beta brain oscillations in language processing	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Over the past 20 years, brain oscillations have proven to be a gateway to the understanding of cognitive processes. It has been shown that different neurocognitive aspects of language processing are associated with brain oscillations at various frequencies. Frequencies in the beta range (13-30 Hz) turned out to be particularly important with respect to cognitive and linguistic manipulations during language processing. Beta activity has been involved in higher-order linguistic functions such as the discrimination of word categories and the retrieval of action semantics as well as semantic memory, and syntactic binding processes, which support meaning construction during sentence processing. From a neurophysiological point of view, the important role of the beta frequencies for such a complex cognitive task as language processing seems reasonable. Experimental evidence suggests that frequencies in the beta range are ideal for maintaining and preserving the activity of neuronal assemblies over time. In particular, recent computational and experimental evidence suggest that beta frequencies are important for linking past and present input and the detection of novelty of stimuli, which are essential processes for language perception as well as production. In addition, the beta frequency's role in the formation of cell assemblies underlying short-term memory seems indispensable for language analysis. Probably the most important point is the well-known relation of beta oscillations with motor processes. It can be speculated that beta activities reflect the close relationship between language comprehension and motor functions, which is one of the core claims of current theories on embodied cognition. In this article, the importance of beta oscillations for language processing is reviewed based both on findings in psychophysiological and neurophysiological literature.
785	embodied	2011	Lachmair, M; Dudschig, C; De Filippis, M; de la Vega, I; Kaup, B	Root versus roof: automatic activation of location information during word processing	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	In four experiments, participants were presented with nouns referring to entities that are associated with an up or down location (e.g., roof, root). The required response either was compatible with the referent location or was not (e.g., upward vs. downward movement after reading roof). Across experiments, we manipulated whether the experimental task required word reading or not, as well as whether the response involved a movement or was stationary. In all experiments, participants' responses were significantly faster in the compatible than in the incompatible condition. This strongly suggests that location information is automatically activated when nouns are being processed.
786	embodied	2011	Troisi, JD; Gabriel, S	Chicken Soup Really Is Good for the Soul: "Comfort Food" Fulfills the Need to Belong	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Theories of social surrogacy and embodied cognition assume that cognitive associations with nonhuman stimuli can be affectively charged. In the current research, we examined whether the "comfort" of comfort foods comes from affective associations with relationships. Two experiments support the hypotheses that comfort foods are associated with relationships and alleviate loneliness. Experiment 1 found that the consumption of comfort foods automatically activates relationship-related concepts. Experiment 2 found that comfort foods buffer against belongingness threats in people who already have positive associations with relationships (i.e., are secure in attachment style). Implications for social surrogacy, need to belong, embodied cognition, and eating behavior are discussed.
787	embodied	2010	Papeo, L; Negri, GAL; Zadini, A; Rumiati, RI	Action performance and action-word understanding: Evidence of double dissociations in left-damaged patients	COGNITIVE NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	It has been proposed that language and action representational systems overlap when the tasks used to assess them involve the same stimuli and require abilities acquired at similarly early developmental stage. We matched variables at task and stimulus level to test this hypothesis in a group of 12 left-damaged patients (and 17 controls). At the patients' group level, we replicated previously reported correlations between linguistic and nonlinguistic tasks. When performances were analysed individually, however, double dissociations were observed between the ability to imitate pantomimes and the ability to produce and comprehend the corresponding action verbs, as well as between the ability to use tools and the ability to comprehend the corresponding tool nouns. These findings suggest that processing action words is independent of the ability to produce the associated object-directed actions. Double dissociations were also found between the ability to comprehend action verbs and the ability to comprehend tool nouns. Moreover, action and tool naming showed differential effects of age of acquisition, suggesting that the two word categories meet the lexical organization by word class (nouns and verbs), even when related to identical action concept. Dissociations at behavioural level are supported by anatomical dissociations shown in the analysis of patients' lesions.
788	embodied	2009	Thomas, LE; Lleras, A	Swinging into thought: Directed movement guides insight in problem solving	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Can directed actions unconsciously influence higher order cognitive processing? We investigated how movement interventions affected participants' ability to solve a classic insight problem. The participants attempted to solve Maier's two-string problem while occasionally taking exercise breaks during which they moved their arms either in a manner related to the problem's solution (swing group) or in a manner inconsistent with the solution (stretch group). Although most of the participants were unaware of the relationship between their arm movement exercises and the problem-solving task, the participants who moved their arms in a manner that suggested the problem's solution were more likely to solve the problem than were those who moved their arms in other ways. Consistent with embodied theories of cognition, these findings show that actions influence thought and, furthermore, that we can implicitly guide people toward insight by directing their actions.
789	embodied	2009	Thomas, LE; Lleras, A	Covert shifts of attention function as an implicit aid to insight	COGNITION	Previous research shows that directed actions can unconsciously influence higher-order cognitive processing, helping learners to retain knowledge and guiding problem solvers to useful insights (e.g. Cook, S. W., Mitchell, Z., & Goldin-Meadow, S. (2008). Gesturing makes learning last. Cognition, 106, 1047-1058: Thomas, L. E., & Lleras, A. (2007). Moving eyes and moving thought: on the spatial compatibility between eye movements and cognition. Psychonomic Bulletin and Review, 14, 663-668). We examined whether overt physical movement is necessary for these embodied effects on cognition, or whether covert shifts of attention are Sufficient to influence cognition. We asked participants to try to solve Duricker's radiation problem while occasionally directing them, via an unrelated digit-tracking task, to shift their attention (while keeping their eyes fixed) in a pattern related to the problem's solution, to move their eyes in this pattern, or to keep their eyes and their attention fixed in the center of the display. Although they reported being unaware of any relationship between the digit-tracking task and the radiation problem, participants in both the eye-movement and attention-shift groups were more likely to solve the problem than were participants who maintained fixation. Our results show that by shifting attention in a pattern compatible with a problem's solution, we can aid participants' insight even in the absence of overt physical movements. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
790	embodied	2007	Anderson, ML	The massive redeployment hypothesis and the functional topography of the brain	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This essay introduces the massive redeployment hypothesis, an account of the functional organization of the brain that centrally features the fact that brain areas are typically employed to support numerous functions. The central contribution of the essay is to outline a middle course between strict localization on the one hand, and holism on the other, in such a way as to account for the supporting data on both sides of the argument. The massive redeployment hypothesis is supported by case studies of redeployment, and compared and contrasted with other theories of the localization of function.
791	embodied	2005	Hayles, NK	Computing the human	THEORY CULTURE & SOCIETY	Researchers in artificial intelligence and robotics often include a timeline stretching into the future in which they predict the convergence between human and artificial intelligence. Ray Kurzweil, for example, predicts that in a mere 100 years humans and intelligent machines will become indistinguishable from one another, both ceasing to have permanent corporeal forms. This article argues that the one thing we can know for sure about the future is that when it arrives, it will be different from what we imagined. The cultural work that predictions like Kurzweil's perform is less to prognosticate the future than to shape our understanding of what it means to be human in the present. Working from the,'sense-think-act' paradigm foundational to work in artificial intelligence and robotics, this article argues that predictions in all three areas (sensing, thinking, acting) feed back to affect how the human is envisioned in the present. The reconfigurations these predictions bring about are to downplay consciousness, embodied cognition, and evolutionary inertia. The article concludes by critically evaluating contemporary resistances to the posthuman, especially in the writings of Rodney Brooks and Francis Fukuyama.
792	embodied	2014	Oppezzo, M; Schwartz, DL	Give Your Ideas Some Legs: The Positive Effect of Walking on Creative Thinking	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	Four experiments demonstrate that walking boosts creative ideation in real time and shortly after. In Experiment 1, while seated and then when walking on a treadmill, adults completed Guilford's alternate uses (GAU) test of creative divergent thinking and the compound remote associates (CRA) test of convergent thinking. Walking increased 81% of participants' creativity on the GAU, but only increased 23% of participants' scores for the CRA. In Experiment 2, participants completed the GAU when seated and then walking, when walking and then seated, or when seated twice. Again, walking led to higher GAU scores. Moreover, when seated after walking, participants exhibited a residual creative boost. Experiment 3 generalized the prior effects to outdoor walking. Experiment 4 tested the effect of walking on creative analogy generation. Participants sat inside, walked on a treadmill inside, walked outside, or were rolled outside in a wheelchair. Walking outside produced the most novel and highest quality analogies. The effects of outdoor stimulation and walking were separable. Walking opens up the free flow of ideas, and it is a simple and robust solution to the goals of increasing creativity and increasing physical activity.
793	embodied	2012	Davoli, CC; Brockmole, JR	The hands shield attention from visual interference	ATTENTION PERCEPTION & PSYCHOPHYSICS	Recent investigations have revealed enhanced processing of information that is presented within hand space. A potential consequence of such enhancement could be that simultaneous processing of information outside of hand space is diminished, but this possibility has yet to be tested. Here, we considered the possibility that the hands can serve as a natural remedy for unwanted interference, by acting as a physical manifestation of the attentional window. Participants performed a flanker task in which they identified a central target letter in the presence of flanking letters that varied in their degrees of compatibility with the target. Participants either held their hands around the target, such that the flankers appeared outside of the hands (but in clear view), or held their hands away from the display, and thus not around any of the stimuli. Flanker interference was markedly reduced when the hands were around the target, and these effects were not attributable to visual differences across the conditions. Collectively, these results indicate that the hands effectively shield attention from visual interference.
794	embodied	2012	Casasanto, D; Henetz, T	Handedness Shapes Children's Abstract Concepts	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Can childrens handedness influence how they represent abstract concepts like kindness and intelligence? Here we show that from an early age, right-handers associate rightward space more strongly with positive ideas and leftward space with negative ideas, but the opposite is true for left-handers. In one experiment, children indicated where on a diagram a preferred toy and a dispreferred toy should go. Right-handers tended to assign the preferred toy to a box on the right and the dispreferred toy to a box on the left. Left-handers showed the opposite pattern. In a second experiment, children judged which of two cartoon animals looked smarter (or dumber) or nicer (or meaner). Right-handers attributed more positive qualities to animals on the right, but left-handers to animals on the left. These contrasting associations between space and valence cannot be explained by exposure to language or cultural conventions, which consistently link right with good. Rather, right- and left-handers implicitly associated positive valence more strongly with the side of space on which they can act more fluently with their dominant hands. Results support the body-specificity hypothesis (Casasanto, 2009), showing that children with different kinds of bodies think differently in corresponding ways.
795	embodied	2011	Hung, IW; Labroo, AA	From Firm Muscles to Firm Willpower: Understanding the Role of Embodied Cognition in Self-Regulation	JOURNAL OF CONSUMER RESEARCH	Across five studies, we show that firming one's muscles can help firm willpower and that firmed willpower mediates one's ability to withstand immediate pain, overcome food temptation, consume unpleasant medicines, and attend to immediately disturbing but essential information, provided that doing so is seen as providing long-term benefits. We draw on theories of embodied cognition to explain our results, and we add to that literature by showing for the first time that one's body can help firm willpower and facilitate the self-regulation essential for the attainment of long-term goals.
796	embodied	2010	Ditman, T; Brunye, TT; Mahoney, CR; Taylor, HA	Simulating an enactment effect: Pronouns guide action simulation during narrative comprehension	COGNITION	Recent research has suggested that reading involves the mental simulation of events and actions described in a text. It is possible however that previous findings did not tap into processes engaged during natural reading but rather those triggered by task demands. The present study examined whether readers spontaneously mentally simulate the actions described in simple narratives by using a memory task that did not encourage the formation of mental images. During encoding, participants read event scenarios preceded by 'I', 'You', or 'He', and then 10 min (Experiment 1) or 3 days later (Experiment 2), we examined memory for action and descriptive elements of these scenarios. Given previous research demonstrating that readers simulate described actions preceded by 'You' from an actor's perspective, we predicted that such action statements would be better remembered than those preceded by 'He' or 'I' a simulated enactment effect. Results of both experiments supported this prediction; readers had better memory for actions but not descriptive information (10 min and 3 days later) after reading statements preceded by 'You'. Results demonstrate that readers spontaneously mentally simulate actions during language comprehension and take different mental perspectives, even when doing so is not necessary to perform the task. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
797	embodied	2014	Phaf, RH; Mohr, SE; Rotteveel, M; Wicherts, JM	Approach, avoidance, and affect: a meta-analysis of approach-avoidance tendencies in manual reaction time tasks	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Approach action tendencies toward positive stimuli and avoidance tendencies from negative stimuli are widely seen to foster survival. Many studies have shown that approach and avoidance arm movements are facilitated by positive and negative affect, respectively. There is considerable debate whether positively and negatively valenced stimuli prime approach and avoidance movements directly (i.e., immediate, unintentional, implicit, automatic, and stimulus-based), or indirectly (i.e., after conscious or non-conscious interpretation of the situation). The direction and size of these effects were often found to depend on the instructions referring to the stimulus object or the self, and on explicit vs. implicit stimulus evaluation. We present a meta-analysis of 29 studies included for their use of strongly positive and negative stimuli, with 81 effect sizes derived solely from the means and standard deviations (combined N = 1538), to examine the automaticity of the link between affective information processing and approach and avoidance, and to test whether it depends on instruction, type of approach-avoidance task, and stimulus type. Results show a significant small to medium-sized effect after correction for publication bias. The strongest arguments for an indirect link between affect and approach-avoidance were the absence of evidence for an effect with implicit evaluation, and the opposite directions of the effect with self and object-related interpretations. The link appears to be influenced by conscious or non-conscious intentions to deal with affective stimuli.
798	embodied	2012	Bender, A; Beller, S	Nature and culture of finger counting: Diversity and representational effects of an embodied cognitive tool	COGNITION	Studies like the one conducted by Domahs et al. (2010, in Cognition) corroborate that finger counting habits affect how numbers are processed, and legitimize the assumption that this effect is culturally modulated. The degree of cultural diversity in finger counting, however, has been grossly underestimated in the field at large, which, in turn, has restricted research questions and designs. In this paper, we demonstrate that fingers as a tool for counting are not only naturally available, but are also and crucially so culturally encoded. To substantiate this, we outline the variability in finger counting and illustrate each of its types with instances from the literature. We argue that the different types of finger counting all constitute distinct representational systems, and we use their properties-dimensionality, dimensional representation, base and sub-base values, extendibility and extent, sign count, and regularity to devise a typology of such systems. This allows us to explore representational effects, that is, the cognitive implications these properties may have, for instance, for the efficiency of information encoding and representation, ease of learning and mastering the system, or memory retrieval and cognitive load. We then highlight the ambivalent consequences arising from structural inconsistencies between finger counting and other modes of number representation like verbal or notational systems, and we discuss how this informs questions on the evolution and development of counting systems. Based on these analyses, we suggest some directions for future research in the field of embodied cognition that would profit substantially from taking into account the cultural diversity in finger counting. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
799	embodied	2012	Madan, CR; Singhal, A	Motor imagery and higher-level cognition: four hurdles before research can sprint forward	COGNITIVE PROCESSING	Traditionally, higher-level cognition has been described as including processes such as attention, memory, language, and decision-making. However, motor processing and motor imagery are important aspects of cognition that have typically been considered outside of the traditional view. Recent research has demonstrated that there may be a critical functional relationship between motor imagery and other higher-level cognitive processes. Here we present a review of the extant literature on motor imagery and cognition, as well as outline four hurdles that must be addressed before the field investigating the influence of motor-based processes on higher-level cognition can be moved forward. These hurdles include problems distinguishing between visual and motor processes, addressing the differences in tasks and stimuli used to evoke motor imagery, accounting for individual differences in motor imagery ability, and identifying the appropriate neural correlates. It is important that these hurdles are addressed in future research so we can sprint forward and further our knowledge about this interesting relationship.
800	embodied	2011	Borghi, AM; Flumini, A; Cimatti, F; Marocco, D; Scorolli, C	Manipulating objects and telling words: a study on concrete and abstract words acquisition	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Four experiments (E1-E2-E3-E4) investigated whether different acquisition modalities lead to the emergence of differences typically found between concrete and abstract words, as argued by the words as tools (WAT) proposal. To mimic the acquisition of concrete and abstract concepts, participants either manipulated novel objects or observed groups of objects interacting in novel ways (Training 1). In TEST 1 participants decided whether two elements belonged to the same category. Later they read the category labels (Training 2); labels could be accompanied by an explanation of their meaning. Then participants observed previously seen exemplars and other elements, and were asked which of them could be named with a given label (TEST 2). Across the experiments, it was more difficult to form abstract than concrete categories (TEST 1); even when adding labels, abstract words remained more difficult than concrete words (TEST 2). TEST 3 differed across the experiments. In E1 participants performed a feature production task. Crucially, the associations produced with the novel words reflected the pattern evoked by existing concrete and abstract words, as the first evoked more perceptual properties. In E2-E3-E4, TEST 3 consisted of a color verification task with manual/verbal (keyboard-microphone) responses. Results showed the microphone use to have an advantage over keyboard use for abstract words, especially in the explanation condition. This supports WAT: due to their acquisition modality, concrete words evoke more manual information; abstract words elicit more verbal information. This advantage was not present when linguistic information contrasted with perceptual one. Implications for theories and computational models of language grounding are discussed.
801	enactive	2005	Bishop, JM; Nasuto, JS	Second-order cybernetics and enactive perception	KYBERNETES	Purpose - To present an account of cognition integrating second-order cybernetics (SOC) together with enactive perception and dynamic systems theory. Design/methodology/approach - The paper presents a brief critique of classical models of cognition then outlines how integration of SOC, enactive perception and dynamic systems theory can overcome some weaknesses of the classical paradigm. Findings - Presents the critique of evolutionary robotics showing how the issues of teleology and autonomy are left unresolved by this paradigm although their solution fits within the proposed framework. Research limitations/implications - The paper highlights the importance of genuine autonomy in the development of artificial cognitive systems. It sets out a framework within which the robofic research of cognitive systems could succeed. Practical implications - There are no immediate practical implications but see research implications. Originality/value - It joins the discussion on the fundamental nature of cognitive systems and emphasise the importance of autonomy and embodiment.
802	enactive	2016	Iliopoulos, A	The material dimensions of signification: Rethinking the nature and emergence of semiosis in the debate on human origins	QUATERNARY INTERNATIONAL	The nature and emergence of "symbolic" material culture has long been at the forefront of the debate on modern human origins. For most evolutionary archaeologists, material signs are arbitrary artefacts that were produced by predefined brainbound representations. In reducing, however, material signification to linguistic terms, and attributing its creation to a representational mechanism, the "symbolic" paradigm commits a pair of serious category mistakes. For one, the significative meaning of material culture is not entirely arbitrary, because concepts can actually be founded on physical properties and affordances. Moreover, material signification is not the epiphenomenal product of innate cognitive modules, for the mind is not a computational device that processes internal representations before externalising them through behaviour. In this paper, I suggest that these theoretical fallacies about the nature and emergence of material signification can be overcome by combining a pragmatic semiotic theory with an enactive theory of cognition. Briefly put, a pragmatic semiotic theory describes the nature of material signification by recognising that significative concepts can be founded on physical qualities and relations, whereas an enactive theory of cognition accounts for the emergence of material signification by explaining how significative concepts are brought forth through the constitutive entwinement of mind and matter. Through the synergistic fusion of these theoretical tenets, the origins of material signification can be examined from an ontological perspective that treats the generation of significative meaning as the emergent product of material engagement. In its light, the preoccupation of most evolutionary archaeologists with the notion of "modernity" appears to be inherently problematic. It is therefore ultimately proposed that the dominant symbolic interpretation of material signification need be replaced with a pragmatic and enactive theory of cognitive semiotics that is suitably geared to trace the evolution of prehistoric material signs. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd and INQUA. All rights reserved.
803	enactive	2016	De Jesus, P	From enactive phenomenology to biosemiotic enactivism	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Autopoietic enactivism (AE) is a relatively young but increasingly influential approach within embodied cognitive science, which aims to offer a viable alternative framework to mainstream cognitivism. Similarly, in biology, the nascent field of biosemiotics has steadily been developing an increasingly influential alternative framework to mainstream biology. Despite sharing common objectives and clear theoretical overlap, there has to date been little to no exchange between the two fields. This paper takes this under-appreciated overlap as not only a much needed call to begin building bridges between the two areas but also as an opportunity to explore how AE could benefit from biosemiotics. As a first tentative step towards this end, the paper will draw from both fields to develop a novel synthesis - biosemiotic enactivism - which aims to clarify, develop and ultimately strengthen some key AE concepts. The paper has two main goals: (i) to propose a novel conception of cognition that could contribute to the ongoing theoretical developments of AE and (ii) to introduce some concepts and ideas from biosemiotics to the enactive community in order to stimulate further debate across the two fields.
804	enactive	2016	Lozada, M; Carro, N	Embodied Action Improves Cognition in Children: Evidence from a Study Based on Piagetian Conservation Tasks	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Converging evidence highlights the relevance of embodied cognition in learning processes. In this study we evaluate whether embodied action (enaction) improves cognitive understanding in children. Using the Piagetian conservation tasks in 6-7 year olds, we analyzed quantity conservation conceptualization in children who were active participants in the transformation process and compared these results to those of children who were mere observers of an adult's demonstration (as traditionally conducted). The investigation was performed with 105 first-graders. Conservation tasks were demonstrated to half the children, while the other half actively carried out the transformation of matter. Our findings showed that active manipulation of the material helped children recognize quantity invariance in a higher proportion than when the demonstration was only observed. That is, their enactive experience enabled them to comprehend conservation phenomena more easily than if they were merely passive observers. The outcome of this research thus emphasizes how active participation benefits cognitive processes in learning contexts, promoting autonomy, and agency during childhood.
805	enactive	2015	Werner, K	Towards a PL-Metaphysics of Perception: In Search of the Metaphysical Roots of Constructivism	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	>Context . Metaphysics of perception explores fundamental questions regarding the structure and status of the perceived world (or the world qua perceived). As such, it must not be separated from metaphysics per se. >Problem . Although philosophy should be distinguished from the history of philosophy, it is nevertheless, say, sensitive to history. It means that in doing philosophy in general and metaphysics in particular, we re-establish, re-think ideas - questions and answers - of our antecessors; we set them anew so that they are vivid roots of contemporary thinking. My point is that movements in contemporary philosophy and cognitive science, such as radical constructivism or enactive and embodied cognition, need a metaphysical grounding. >Method . I present a more elaborate account of PL-metaphysics as proposed by Jerzy Perzanowski, i.e., the stream of ideas grounded first of all in the conceptions of Plato and Leibniz. PL-metaphysics shall be compared to what I call, in the same spirit, DL-metaphysics, i.e., the stream grounded in the ideas of Descartes and Locke. On this basis, I propose to reconsider radical constructivism and pursue the question whether PL-metaphysics has anything interesting to offer in this field. >Results . PL-metaphysics does have something interesting to offer due to the fact that according to it, perception is not conceived of as a transmission from an "objective" reality to the internal mental realm; as a result of perception, reality is actualized in some way, i.e., it acquires some presentation(s) or appearance(s). By virtue of perception, the apparent world comes to existence. This, however, does not mean that the apparent world is a projection of mind, that it exists "in the head." >Implications . PL-metaphysics reconciles realism with constructivism. As such, it might be considered either an alternative to constructivism or an improvement and completion of this position. >Constructivist content . The article refers to non-Cartesian movements in contemporary philosophy, including radical constructivism, enactive and embodied cognition.
806	enactive	2015	Gallagher, S; Lindgren, R	Enactive Metaphors: Learning Through Full-Body Engagement	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	Building on both cognitive semantics and enactivist approaches to cognition, we explore the concept of enactive metaphor and its implications for learning. Enactive approaches to cognition involve the idea that online sensory-motor and affective processes shape the way the perceiver-thinker experiences the world and interacts with others. Specifically, we argue for an approach to learning through whole-body engagement in a way that employs enactive metaphors. We summarize recent empirical studies that show enactive metaphors and whole-body involvement in virtual and mixed reality environments support and improve learning.
807	enactive	2015	Parvan, A	Patients' substantialization of disease, the hybrid symptom and metaphysical care	JOURNAL OF EVALUATION IN CLINICAL PRACTICE	In the context of current scholarship concerned with facilitating integration between the biomedical and the patient-centred models of care, the article suggests that disease brings about an ontological disruption in patients, which is not directly addressed in either model, and may interfere with treatment and therapy outcomes if not met with a type of care termed here as metaphysical'. The receipt of diagnosis and medical care can give patients the sense that they are ontologically diminished, or less of a human, and along with physicians' approaches to and discourses about disease, may prompt them to seek ontological restoration or security in the same way as psychologically traumatized patients sometimes do: by treating the disease and/or the experience of harm associated with it as a thing that exists per se. I call this substantialization' of disease (or harm) and draw on Augustine's theory of non-substantial deficiencies (physiological and moral) and on Plato's and Plotinus's different takes on such defects in order to discuss what substantialization can do for patients. Based on literature that examines patients' ways of talking about and living with their disease, I speculate that substantialization can generate a hybrid symptom', consisting in patterns of exercising agency which may predispose to non-adherence. Ways in which physicians could provide metaphysical care are proposed, along with an understanding of chronic patients as hybrid ontological and agentic units, which draws on theories of enactive cognition. I opine that metaphysical care may facilitate integration between the depersonalized and personalized models of care.
808	enactive	2015	Kimmel, M; Irran, C; Luger, MA	Bodywork as systemic and inter-enactive competence: participatory process management in Feldenkrais (R) Method and Zen Shiatsu	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Feldenkrais and Shiatsu enable somatic learning through continuous tactile coupling, a real-time interpersonal dynamic unfolding in a safe dyadic sphere. The first part of our micro-ethnographic study draws on process vignettes and subjective theories to demonstrate how bodywork is infused with systemic sensitivities and awareness for non-linear process management. Expressed in dynamic systems parlance, both disciplines foster metastability, adaptivity, and self-organization in the client's somatopersonal system by progressively reconfiguring systemic dispositions, i.e., an attractor landscape. Doing so requires a keen embodied apperception of hierarchies of somatosystemic order. Bodyworkers learn to explore these in their eigenfunction (joints, muscles, fascia), discriminate coordinative organization in small ensembles, and monitor large-scale dynamic interplay. The practitioner's "extended body" reaching forth into the client's through a resonance loop eventually becomes part of this. Within a bodywork session, practitioners modulate this hierarchical functional architecture. Their ability for sensorially staying apace of systemic emergence allows them to respond to minute changes and customize reactions in a zone of proximal development (dynamic immediacy). They stimulate the client's system with a mix of perturbing and stabilizing interventions that oscillate between eigenfunctions and their coordinative integration. Practical knowledge for "soft-assembling" non-linear synergies is crucial for this (cumulative local effects, high-level functions "slaving" the system, etc.). The paper's second part inventorizes the bodyworker's operative tool-box micro-skills providing the wherewithal for context-intelligent intervention. Practitioners deploy "educated senses" and a repertoire of hands-on techniques (grips, stretches, etc.) against a backdrop of somatic habits (proper posture, muscle activation, gaze patterns, etc.). At this level, our study addresses a host of micro-skills through the lens of enactive cognitive science.
809	enactive	2015	Wiltshire, TJ; Lobato, EJC; McConnell, DS; Fiore, SM	Prospects for direct social perception: a multi-theoretical integration to further the science of social cognition	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	In this paper we suggest that differing approaches to the science of social cognition mirror the arguments between radical embodied and traditional approaches to cognition. We contrast the use in social cognition of theoretical inference and mental simulation mechanisms with approaches emphasizing a direct perception of others' mental states. We build from a recent integrative framework unifying these divergent perspectives through the use of dual process theory and supporting social neuroscience research. Our elaboration considers two complementary notions of direct perception: one primarily stemming from ecological psychology and the other from enactive cognition theory. We use this as the foundation from which to offer an account of the informational basis for social information and assert a set of research propositions to further the science of social cognition. In doing so, we point out how perception of the minds of others can be supported in some cases by lawful information, supporting direct perception of social affordances and perhaps, mental states, and in other cases by cues that support indirect perceptual inference. Our goal is to extend accounts of social cognition by integrating advances across disciplines to provide a multi level and multi theoretic description that can advance this field and offer a means through which to reconcile radical embodied and traditional approaches to cognitive neuroscience.
810	enactive	2012	Roesch, EB; Nasuto, SJ; Bishop, JM	Emotion and anticipation in an enactive framework for cognition (response to Andy Clark)	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	0
811	enactive	2011	Fridland, E	The case for proprioception	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	In formulating a theory of perception that does justice to the embodied and enactive nature of perceptual experience, proprioception can play a valuable role. Since proprioception is necessarily embodied, and since proprioceptive experience is particularly integrated with one's bodily actions, it seems clear that proprioception, in addition to, e.g., vision or audition, can provide us with valuable insights into the role of an agent's corporal skills and capacities in constituting or structuring perceptual experience. However, if we are going to have the opportunity to argue from analogy with proprioception to vision, audition, touch, taste, or smell, then it is necessary to eschew any doubts about the legitimacy of proprioception's inclusion into the category of perceptual modalities. To this end, in this article, I (1) respond to two arguments that Shaun Gallagher (2003) presents in "Bodily self-awareness and objectperception" against proprioception's ability to meet the criteria of object perception, (2) present a diagnosis of Gallagher's position by locating a misunderstanding in the distinction between proprioceptive information and proprioceptive awareness, and (3) show that treating proprioception as a perceptual modality allows us to account for the interaction of proprioception with the other sensory modalities, to apply the lessons we learn from proprioception to the other sensory modalities, and to account for proprioceptive learning. Finally, (4) I examine Sydney Shoemaker's (1994) identification constraint and suggest that a full-fledged notion of object-hood is unnecessary to ground a theory of perception.
812	enactive	2011	Vakarelov, O	The cognitive agent: Overcoming informational limits	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	This article provides an answer to the question: What is the function of cognition? By answering this question it becomes possible to investigate what are the simplest cognitive systems. It addresses the question by treating cognition as a solution to a design problem. It defines a nested sequence of design problems: (1) How can a system persist? (2) How can a system affect its environment to improve its persistence? (3) How can a system utilize better information from the environment to select better actions? And, (4) How can a system reduce its inherent informational limitations to achieve more successful behavior? This provides a corresponding nested sequence of system classes: (1) autonomous systems, (2) (re) active autonomous systems, (3) informationally controlled autonomous systems (autonomous agents), and (4) cognitive systems. This article provides the following characterization of cognition: The cognitive system is the set of mechanisms of an autonomous agent that (1) allow increase of the correlation and integration between the environment and the information system of the agent, so that (2) the agent can improve the selection of actions and thereby produce more successful behavior. Finally, it shows that common cognitive capacities satisfy the characterization: learning, memory, representation, decision making, reasoning, attention, and communication.
813	enactive	2009	Cabral, MDC; Kastrup, V	Receptive Reading: An Experience of Becoming Aware	PSICOLOGIA-REFLEXAO E CRITICA	This work discusses the experience of reading literature in silence and solitude, focusing its effects oil the reader. The starting point is the enlargement of cognition as presented in Varela's enactive approach and the concept of inventive cognition as formulated by Kastrup. Then. it proposes the reading as an experience of becoming aware. The work is also based on Chartier's ideas about reading practices and uses the theory of Larrosa regarding. the transformative aspect of reading as well. The idea that reading literature provides a meeting with otherness is developed. It may constitute an opening for the unknown and an opportunity of inventing oneself.
814	enactive	2008	Martinez, IC; Anta, JF	Enactive cognition and music pedagogy: Embodied reading and declarative analysis of musical structure in an instrumental lesson	ESTUDIOS DE PSICOLOGIA	There exists agreement in the field of cognitive science on the fact that the study of mind encompasses the whole human body, including the interpersonal and social world, Accordingly, it is assumed that the a development of an individual's consciousness is empathic in nature, involving the cognition of oneself with respect to others and of others with respect to oneself In the present article, the embodied activity of the music teacher is analysed in the context of an instrumental lesson. It is assumed that embodied imagination, understood as a transmodal process of mapping between different experiential domains, allows the teacher to perform an embodied reading of the student's music performance, which becomes a pedagogic tool in the verbal interaction to teach instrumental performance.
815	enactive	2008	Martinez, IC	Enactive cognition and embodied mind: The imaginative and metaphorical component of music listening	ESTUDIOS DE PSICOLOGIA	Enactive cognition is a concept coined in the field of cognitive science to posit that mental processes are embodied in the sensory-motor activity of the organism interacting with the environment. Recently, several hypotheses have been put forth concerning the imaginative nature of music cognition based on the assumption that structural Metaphors might, to a certain extent, model musical experience, In this paper, the metaphorical component of music cognition is analysed and some results of how listeners use it to experience the underlying structure of tonal music are reported. The outcomes provide evidence that listeners experience the interruption of structural tension in metaphorical terms, According to the theory of enactive cognition, the systematic correlations that take place between different experiential domains are the bases of the idealised cognitive models that listeners activate in order to make sense of music.
816	enactive	2017	Weinbaum, D; Veitas, V	Synthetic cognitive development Where intelligence comes from	EUROPEAN PHYSICAL JOURNAL-SPECIAL TOPICS	The human cognitive system is a remarkable exemplar of a general intelligent system whose competence is not confined to a specific problem domain. Evidently, general cognitive competences are a product of a prolonged and complex process of cognitive development. Therefore, the process of cognitive development is a primary key to understanding the emergence of intelligent behavior. This paper develops the theoretical foundations for a model that generalizes the process of cognitive development. The model aims to provide a realistic scheme for the synthesis of scalable cognitive systems with an open-ended range of capabilities. Major concepts and theories of human cognitive development are introduced and briefly explored, focusing on the enactive approach to cognition and the concept of sense-making. The initial scheme of human cognitive development is then generalized by introducing the philosophy of individuation and the abstract mechanism of transduction. The theory of individuation provides the ground for the necessary paradigmatic shift from cognitive systems as given products to cognitive development as a formative process of self-organization. Next, the conceptual model is specified as a scalable scheme of networks of agents. The mechanisms of individuation are formulated in context-independent information theoretical terms. Finally, the paper discusses two concrete aspects of the generative model - mechanisms of transduction and value modulating systems. These are topics of further research towards an implementable architecture.
817	enactive	2016	Ramstead, MJD; Veissiere, SPL; Kirmayer, LJ	Cultural Affordances: Scaffolding Local Worlds Through Shared Intentionally and Regimes of Attention	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In this paper we outline a framework for the study of the mechanisms involved in the engagement of human agents with cultural affordances. Our aim is to better understand how culture and context interact with human biology to shape human behavior, cognition, and experience. We attempt to integrate several related approaches in the study of the embodied, cognitive, and affective substrates of sociality and culture and the sociocultural scaffolding of experience. The integrative framework we propose bridges cognitive and social sciences to provide (i) an expanded concept of 'affordance' that extends to sociocultural forms of life, and (ii) a multilevel account of the socioculturally scaffolded forms of affordance learning and the transmission of affordances in patterned sociocultural practices and regimes of shared attention. This framework provides an account of how cultural content and normative practices are built on a foundation of contentless basic mental processes that acquire content through immersive participation of the agent in social practices that regulate joint attention and shared intentionality.
818	enactive	2016	De Jesus, P	Autopoietic enactivism, phenomenology and the deep continuity between life and mind	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	In their recent book Radicalizing Enactivism. Basic minds without content, Dan Hutto and Erik Myin (H&M) make two important criticisms of what they call autopoietic enactivism (AE). These two criticisms are that AE harbours tacit representationalists commitments and that it has too liberal a conception of cognition. Taking the latter claim as its main focus, this paper explores the theoretical underpinnings of AE in order to tease out how it might respond to H&M. In so doing it uncovers some reasons which not only appear to warrant H&M's initial claims but also seem to point to further uneasy tensions within the AE framework. The paper goes beyond H&M by tracing the roots of these criticisms and apparent tensions to phenomenology and the role it plays in AE's distinctive conception of strong life-mind continuity. It is highlighted that this phenomenological dimension of AE contains certain unexamined anthropomorphic and anthropogenic leanings which do not sit comfortably within its wider commitment to life-mind continuity. In light of this analysis it is suggested that AE will do well to rethink this role or ultimately run the risk of remaining theoretically unstable. The paper aims to contribute to the ongoing theoretical development of AE by highlighting potential internal tensions within its framework which need to be addressed in order for it to continue to evolve as a coherent paradigm.
819	enactive	2016	Harvey, MI; Gahrn-Andersen, R; Steffensen, SV	Interactivity and Enaction in Human Cognition	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	> Context Distributed language and interactivity are central members of a set of concepts that are rapidly developing into rigorous, exciting additions to 4E cognitive science. Because they share certain assumptions and methodological commitments with enactivism, the two have sometimes been confused; additionally, while enactivism is a well-developed paradigm, interactivity has relied more on methodological development and on a set of focal examples. > Problem The goal of this article is to clarify the core conceptual commitments of both interactivity-based and enactive approaches to cognitive science by contrasting the two and highlighting their differences in assumptions, focus, and explanatory strategies. > Method We begin with the shared commitments of interactivity and enactivism-e.g., antirepresentationalism, naturalism, interdisciplinarity, the importance of biology, etc. We then give an overview of several important varieties of enactivism, including sensorimotor and anti-representationalist enactivism, and then walk through the history of the "core" varieties, taking care to contrast Maturana's approach with that of Varela and the current researchers following in Varela's footsteps. We then describe the differences between this latter group and interactivity-based approaches to cognitive science. > Results We argue that enactivism's core concepts are explanatorily inadequate in two ways. First, they mis-portray the organization of many living systems, which are not operationally closed. Second, they fail to realize that most epistemic activity (i.e., "sense-making") depends on engagement with non-local resources. Both problems can be dealt with by adopting an interactivity-based perspective, in which agency and cognition are fundamentally distributed and involve integration of non-local resources into the local coupling of organism and environment. > Implications The article's primary goal is theoretical clarification and exposition; its primary implication is that enactive concepts need to be modified or extended in some way in order to explain fully many aspects of cognition and directed biological activity. Or, read another way, the article's primary implication is that interactivity already provides a rich set of concepts for doing just that, which, while closely allied with enactivism in several ways, are not enactivist concepts. > Constructivist content The article consists entirely of a comparison between two constructivist fields of theory.
820	enactive	2016	Scarfone, D	Enactive Cognition, the Unconscious, and Time	PSYCHOANALYTIC INQUIRY	I make a number of observations about what can be learned from the concordance and the differences that exist between an enactive theory of perception in cognitive science and in philosophy of mind, the metapsychology of perception that can be drawn from Freud's Project and Laplanche's theory of generalized seduction. Through this parallel between the three domains, I uphold the notion of actual time as representing the timeframe of enactive cognition as it happens in the analytic session, more specifically within the transference.
821	enactive	2015	Matyja, JR; Dolega, K	Commentary: The embodied brain: towards a radical embodied cognitive neuroscience	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	0
822	enactive	2015	Aydin, U; Ubuz, B	THE THINKING-ABOUT-DERIVATIVE TEST FOR UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS: DEVELOPMENT AND VALIDATION	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SCIENCE AND MATHEMATICS EDUCATION	Two studies were conducted for the development and validation of a multidimensional test to assess undergraduate students' mathematical thinking about derivative. The first study involved two phases: question generation and refinement of the Thinking-about-Derivative Test (TDT). The second study included four phases as follows: test administration, generalizability analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, and subgroup validity analysis. Findings suggested that the 30-item multiple-choice TDT, which comprises 6 mathematical thinking aspects, enactive, iconic, algorithmic, algebraic, formal, and axiomatic thinking, demonstrates acceptable levels of reliability and validity. Followed by additional cross-validation studies, the TDT may be a useful tool for mathematics education researchers and mathematicians. Directions for future research and implications for educational practice are discussed.
823	enactive	2015	Beer, RD	Characterizing Autopoiesis in the Game of Life	ARTIFICIAL LIFE	Maturana and Varela's concept of autopoiesis defines the essential organization of living systems and serves as a foundation for their biology of cognition and the enactive approach to cognitive science. As an initial step toward a more formal analysis of autopoiesis, this article investigates its application to the compact, recurrent spatiotemporal patterns that arise in Conway's Game-of-Life cellular automaton. In particular, we demonstrate how such entities can be formulated as self-constructing networks of interdependent processes that maintain their own boundaries. We then characterize the specific organizations of several such entities, suggest a way to simplify the descriptions of these organizations, and briefly consider the transformation of such organizations over time.
824	enactive	2015	Barrett, NF	Enactive cognition at the edge of sense-making: Making sense of non-sense	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	0
825	enactive	2015	Merritt, M	Thinking-is-moving: dance, agency, and a radically enactive mind	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Recently, in cognitive science, the enactivist account of cognition has been gaining ground, due in part to studies of movement in conjunction with thought. The idea, as NoA << (2009), has put it, that "cognition is not something happening inside us or to us, but it's something we do, something we achieve," is increasingly supported by research on joint attention, movement coordination, and gesture. Not surprisingly, therefore, enactivists have also begun to look at "movement specialists"aEuro"dancers-for both scientific and phenomenological accounts of thinking with and through movement. In this paper, I argue that a serious exploration of dance and movement does not merely bolster the enactivist view, but rather, it suggests a radical enactivism, as envisaged by, e.g., Hutto (2011). To support this claim, I examine an account of "Thinking in Movement" provided by Maxine Sheets-Johnstone (1981, 2009) in order to highlight the ways in which intentional agency and meaning-making occur in improvisational dance. These processes, I further argue, closely mirror some of the key components of participatory sense making, as described by De Jaegher and Di Paolo (Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences 6(4):485-507, 2007). This is beneficial to my case, because it permits a discussion of "thought-full action" that does not depend upon standard cognitivist frameworks for explanation. By carefully focusing on how agency can help to separate mere "thrashing about" from meaningful movement, this paper aim to strengthen the position of radical enactivism from the unique perspective and dance and sense-making.
826	enactive	2015	Urban, P	ENACTIVISM AND CARE ETHICS: MERGING PERSPECTIVES	FILOZOFIA	Enactivism can be seen as a non-reductive, naturalistic theory of mind and agency that emerged from a set of biological and phenomenological ideas, inspired also by the Buddhist mindfulness tradition. The ethics of care, on the other hand, has established itself as a normative moral theory inspired by feminist moral philosophy and psychology as well as by some more traditional currents in ethics, such as moral sentimentalism, which it developed further in a novel and innovative manner. This paper aims to show that, despite the prima facie differences and separate developmental trajectories, both approaches have put forward, at about the same period of time, a powerful criticism of traditional individualistic and rationalistic accounts of autonomy, cognition, and agency, and have suggested a revision of these notions in terms of a relational ontology with an emphasis on the embodied and situated nature of cognition and agency. The first part of the paper provides a picture of an enactive research program. Its implications for an enactive ethics are discussed as well. In the second part some striking affinities between the enactive approach and the ethics of care are explored.
827	enactive	2014	Raimondi, V	Social interaction, languaging and the operational conditions for the emergence of observing	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In order to adequately understand the foundations of human social interaction, we need to provide an explanation of our specific mode of living based on linguistic activity and the cultural practices with which it is interwoven. To this end, we need to make explicit the constitutive conditions for the emergence of the phenomena which relate to language and joint activity starting from their operational-relational matrix. The approach presented here challenges the inadequacy of mentalist models to explain the relation between language and interaction. Recent empirical studies concerning joint attention and language acquisition have led scholars such as Tomasello et al. (2005) to postulate the existence of a universal human "sociocognitive infrastructure" that drives joint social activities and is biologically inherited. This infrastructure would include the skill of precocious intention-reading, and is meant to explain human linguistic development and cultural learning. However, the cognitivist and functionalist assumptions on which this model relies have resulted in controversial hypotheses (i.e., intention-reading as the ontogenetic precursor of language) which take a contentious conception of mind and language for granted. By challenging this model, I will show that we should instead turn ourselves towards a constitutive explanation of language within a "bio-logical" understanding of interactivity. This is possible only by abandoning the cognitivist conception of organism and traditional views of language. An epistemological shift must therefore be proposed, based on embodied, enactive and distributed approaches, and on Maturana's work in particular. The notions of languaging and observing that will be discussed in this article will allow for a bio-logically grounded, theoretically parsimonious alternative to mentalist and spectatorial approaches, and will guide us towards a wider understanding of our sociocultural mode of living.
828	enactive	2014	Aviles, C; Ruiz-Perez, LM; Navia, JA; Rioja, N; Sanz-Rivas, D	Perceptual-motor expertise and cognition in sport: From ecological and dynamic approach to enaction	ANALES DE PSICOLOGIA	In this paper three alternative theoretical streams to cognitivism, with particular emphasis on enactivism are discussed in order to explain the sport skill acquisition process and human control of movement. In the first part, main concepts of ecological psychology are outlined, like movement regulation, direct perception or mutual interdependence between perception and action. Afterwards, using dynamical model as background, some concepts of motor skill coordination are explained (i.e., constraints or movement emergency). The next section will be focused on enactive approach as a conceptual extension from cognitive science that transcends the other paradigms. From this orientation, it calls for a mind-body fusion of the athlete, which is inseparable to the environment and opposing the prevailing dualism and reductionism. Finally, some guidelines and applications enactive research that are currently being developed are presented.
829	enactive	2014	Di Paolo, EA	Enactive Cognition at the Edge of Sense-Making Making Sense of Non-Sense Foreword	ENACTIVE COGNITION AT THE EDGE OF SENSE-MAKING: MAKING SENSE OF NON-SENSE	0
830	enactive	2014	Majumdar, R; Kothiyal, A; Pande, P; Agarwal, H; Ranka, A; Murthy, S; Chandrasekharan, S	The enactive equation: exploring how multiple external representations are integrated, using a fully controllable interface and eye-tracking	2014 IEEE SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON TECHNOLOGY FOR EDUCATION (T4E)	Representational competence (RC), defined as "the ability to simultaneously process and integrate multiple external representations (MERs) in a domain", is a marker of expertise in science and engineering. However, the cognitive mechanisms underlying this ability and how this ability develops in learners, is poorly understood. In this paper, we report a fully controllable interface, designed to help school students develop RC. Further, as the design emerged from the application of distributed and embodied cognition theory to the RC problem, the design also seeks to shed light on the cognitive mechanisms underlying the integration of MERs. Here we report a preliminary eye and mouse tracking study, which sought to develop a detailed understanding of how students interacted with our interface, under self and text-guided exploration conditions. We also examined how the interaction process related to students' ability to integrate the representations in the interface. Results highlighted several desirable student behaviors, and potential points of modification of the interface to improve integration of MERs.
831	enactive	2014	Matthen, M	Radicalizing Enactivism: Basic Minds without Content	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHY	In this review of Hutto and Myin's Radicalizing Enactivism, I question the adequacy of a non-representational theory of mind. I argue first that such a theory cannot differentiate cognition from other bodily engagements such as wrestling with an opponent. Second, I question whether the simple robots constructed by Rodney Brooks are adequate as models of multimodal organisms. Last, I argue that Hutto and Myin pay very little attention to how semantically interacting representations are needed to give an account of choice and action.
832	enactive	2014	Short, WM; Shearin, WH; Welchman, A	Deleuze and the Enaction of Non-Sense	ENACTIVE COGNITION AT THE EDGE OF SENSE-MAKING: MAKING SENSE OF NON-SENSE	This chapter examines the ways in which French philosopher Gilles Deleuze offers conceptual resources for an enactive account of language, in particular his extensive consideration of language in The Logic of Sense. Specifically, Deleuze's distinction between the nonsense of Lewis Carroll's portmanteau creations and that of Antonin Artaud's "translation" of Carroll's Jabberwocky highlights the need for an enactive, rather than merely embodied, approach to sense-making, particularly with regard to the general category of what Jakobson and Halle (1956) call "sound symbolism".
833	enactive	2012	Maiese, M	Rethinking attention deficit hyperactivity disorder	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper examines two influential theoretical frameworks, set forth by Russell Barkley (1997) and Thomas Brown (2005), and argues that important headway in understanding attention deficit hyperactivity disorder can be made if we acknowledge the way in which human cognition and action are essentially embodied and enactive. The way in which we actively make sense of the world is structured by our bodily dynamics and our sensorimotor engagement with our surroundings. These bodily dynamics are linked to an individual's concerns and felt needs, so that what she attends to in perception, decision-making, and action is partially constituted by her cares and concerns. What I call "affective framing" engages the whole living body, and ordinarily contributes to attentional focusing, working memory, goal-formulation, and action-monitoring. However, due to affective framing deficits, subjects with ADHD find it difficult to focus their attention, kindle their motivation, and systematically simplify cognitive procedures according to considerations of relevance, salience, and context. Thus, what is impaired in ADHD is not simply a set of executive brain functions, but rather a range of bodily dynamics through which subjects engage with their world. For this reason, intensive behavioral intervention that engages the whole living body may be the most effective, lasting treatment for ADHD.
834	enactive	2011	Miyahara, K	Neo-pragmatic intentionality and enactive perception: a compromise between extended and enactive minds	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The general idea of enactive perception is that actual and potential embodied activities determine perceptual experience. Some extended mind theorists, such as Andy Clark, refute this claim despite their general emphasis on the importance of the body. I propose a compromise to this opposition. The extended mind thesis is allegedly a consequence of our commonsense understanding of the mind. Furthermore, extended mind theorists assume the existence of non-human minds. I explore the precise nature of the commonsense understanding of the mind, which accepts both extended minds and non-human minds. In the area of philosophy of mind, there are two theories of intentionality based on such commonsense understandings: neo-behaviorism defended, e.g., by Daniel Dennett, and neo-pragmatism advocated, e.g., by Robert Brandom. Neither account is in full agreement with how people ordinarily use their commonsense understanding. Neo-pragmatism, however, can overcome its problem-its inability to explain why people routinely find intentionality in non-humans-by incorporating the phenomenological suggestion that interactional bodily skills determine how we perceive others' intentionality. I call this integrative position embodied neo-pragmatism. I conclude that the extended view of the mind makes sense, without denying the existence of non-human minds, only by assuming embodied neo-pragmatism and hence the general idea of enactive perception.
835	enactive	2011	Vaz, NM; Ramos, GC; de Castro, AB	The Enactive Paradigm 33 Years Later Response to Alfred Tauber	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	Upshot According to the biology of cognition and language (Maturana's approach), the immune system is not a cognitive system and the defining of a cognitive paradigm is not what we understand as a Maturanian approach to immunology. The true cognitive actions in immunology are performed by immunologists acting as observers, not by body organs or systems. Stimuli and responses are not adequate concepts in the description of systems. As a closed network of cellular/molecular interactions, the immune system yields patterns of activity, as is transparent in robust conserved profiles of reactivity of natural immunoglobulins, as investigated by Nobrega et al. and Cohen et al., which offer the opportunity to unravel its natural, spontaneous activity. Dietary materials, products of the commensal microbiome, are the most abundant and common elements continuously incorporated into the network activity and, thus, also represent an important avenue of investigation.
836	enactive	2011	Kojs, J	Notating Action-Based Music	LEONARDO MUSIC JOURNAL	The author discusses the notation of action-based music, in which physical gestures and their characteristics, such as shape, direction and speed (as opposed to psychoacoustic properties such as pitch, timbre and rhythm), play the dominant role in preserving and transferring information. Grounded in ecological perception and enactive cognition, the article shows how such an approach mediates a direct relationship between composition and performance, details some action-based music notation principles and offers practical examples. A discussion of tablature, graphic scores and text scores contextualizes the method historically.
837	enactive	2010	Di Donato, P	Geospatial Semantics: A Critical Review	COMPUTATIONAL SCIENCE AND ITS APPLICATIONS - ICCSA 2010, PT 1, PROCEEDINGS	Current approaches to semantics in the geospatial domain are mainly based on ontologies, but ontologies, since continue to build entirely on the symbolic methodology, suffers from the classical problems, e.g. the symbol grounding problem, affecting representational theories. We claim for an enactive approach to semantics, where meaning is considered to be an emergent feature arising context-dependently in action. Since representational theories are unable to deal with context and emergence, a new formalism is required toward a contextual theory of concepts. SCOP is considered a promising formalism in this sense and is briefly described.
838	enactive	2017	Clare, Y	Stanislavsky's system as an enactive guide to embodiedcognition?	CONNECTION SCIENCE	This paper presents a model of the structure of subjective experience derived from the work of Konstantin Stanislavsky, and demonstrates its usefulness as a functional framework of enacted cognitive embodiment by using it to articulate his approach to the process of acting. Research into Stanislavsky's training exercises reveals that they evoke a spatial adpositional conceptualisation of experience. When reflected back onto the practice from which it emerges, this situates the choices made by actors as contributing towards the construction of a stable attention field with which they enter into relationship during performance. It is suggested that the resulting template might clarify conceptual distinctions between practices at the unconscious level, and a brief illustrative comparison between Stanislavsky's and Meisner's practices is essayed. A parallel is drawn throughout with the basic principles of embodied cognition, and correlations found with aspects of Dynamic Field Theory and Wilson's notions of on- and off-line processing.
839	enactive	2016	Zapata-Fonseca, L; Dotov, D; Fossion, R; Froese, T	Time-Series Analysis of Embodied Interaction: Movement Variability and Complexity Matching As Dyadic Properties	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	There is a growing consensus that a fuller understanding of social cognition depends on more systematic studies of real-time social interaction. Such studies require methods that can deal with the complex dynamics taking place at multiple interdependent temporal and spatial scales, spanning sub-personal, personal, and dyadic levels of analysis. We demonstrate the value of adopting an extended multi-scale approach by re-analyzing movement time-series generated in a study of embodied dyadic interaction in a minimal virtual reality environment (a perceptual crossing experiment). Reduced movement variability revealed an interdependence between social awareness and social coordination that cannot be accounted for by either subjective or objective factors alone: it picks out interactions in which subjective and objective conditions are convergent (i.e., elevated coordination is perceived as clearly social, and impaired coordination is perceived as socially ambiguous). This finding is consistent with the claim that interpersonal interaction can be partially constitutive of direct social perception. Clustering statistics (Allan Factor) of salient events revealed fractal scaling. Complexity matching defined as the similarity between these scaling laws was significantly more pronounced in pairs of participants as compared to surrogate dyads. This further highlights the multi-scale and distributed character of social interaction and extends previous complexity matching results from dyadic conversation to non-verbal social interaction dynamics. Trials with successful joint interaction were also associated with an increase in local coordination. Consequently, a local coordination pattern emerges on the background of complex dyadic interactions in the PCE task and makes joint successful performance possible.
840	enactive	2016	Kyselo, M	The enactive approach and disorders of the self - the case of schizophrenia	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The paper discusses two recent approaches to schizophrenia, a phenomenological and a neuroscientific approach, illustrating how new directions in philosophy and cognitive science can elaborate accounts of psychopathologies of the self. It is argued that the notion of the minimal and bodily self underlying these approaches is still limited since it downplays the relevance of social interactions and relations for the formation of a coherent sense of self. These approaches also illustrate that we still lack an account of how 1st and 3rd person observations can fruitfully go together in an embodied account of disorders of the self. Two concepts from enactive cognitive science are introduced, the notions of autonomy and sense-making. Based on these, a new proposal for an enactive approach to psychopathologies of the self is outlined that integrates 1st and 3rd person perspectives, while strongly emphasising the role of social interactions in the formation of self. It is shown how the enactive framework might serve as a basis for an alternative understanding of disorders of the self such as schizophrenia, as a particular form of socially constituted self-organisation.
841	enactive	2016	Loaiza, JM	Musicking, embodiment and participatory enaction of music: outline and key points	CONNECTION SCIENCE	This paper proposes a way of understanding the confluence of the enactive approach to cognition and musicology in a wider sense. The implication is that existing socio-cultural approaches to meaning in music - whereby music is seen as a total social phenomenon, and the naturalistic view of music cognition may be articulated via the life-mind continuum proposed by enactivism. On the one hand, discussions on embodied music cognition are presented with the opportunity to overcome their de facto individualism in a principled, naturalistic way. On the other hand, for the socio-cultural-historical approaches the opportunity seems to be to move beyond the biology-culture divide without submitting to reductionism. A wider explanatory unit is presented. The explanatory utility of embodiment is examined in relation to the wider frame of social-life in dialectical fashion. A definition of musicking is sketched considering it as an instance of processes of social-life. This paper signals a direction to take, yet methodologies, results, and homologies with other disciplines are left open to further discussion.
842	enactive	2016	Petters, D	An encounter between 4e cognition and attachment theory	CONNECTION SCIENCE	This paper explores a constructive revision of the conceptual underpinnings of Attachment Theory through an encounter with the diverse elements of 4e cognition. Attachment relationships involve the development of preference for one or a few carers and expectations about their availability and responsiveness as a haven of safety and a base from which to explore. In attachment theory, mental representations have been assigned a central organising role in explaining attachment phenomena. The 4e cognition approaches in cognitive science raise a number of questions about the development and interplay of attachment and cognition. These include: (1) the nature of what Bowlby called internal working models of attachment'; (2) the extent to which the infant-carer dyad functions as an extension of the infant's mind; and (3) whether Bowlby's attachment control system concept can be usefully re-framed in enactive terms where traditional cognitivist representations are: (3i) substituted for sensorimotor skill-focused mediating representations; (3ii) viewed as arising from autopoietic living organisms; and/or (3iii) mostly composed from the non-contentful mechanisms of basic minds? A theme that cross-cuts these research questions is how representations for capturing meaning, and structures for adaptive control, are both required to explain the full range of behaviour of interest to Attachment Theory researchers.
843	enactive	2016	Martinez-Pernia, D; Huepe, D; Huepe-Artigas, D; Correia, R; Garcia, S; Beitia, M	Enactive Approach and Dual-Tasks for the Treatment of Severe Behavioral and Cognitive Impairment in a Person with Acquired Brain Injury: A Case Study	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	One of the most important sequela in persons who suffer from acquired brain injury is a behavioral disorder. To date, the primary approaches for the rehabilitation of this sequela are Applied Behavior Analysis, Cognitive-Behavior Therapy, and Comprehensive-Holistic Rehabilitation Programs. Despite this theoretical plurality, none of these approaches focuses on rehabilitating behavioral disorders considering the relation between affordance and environmental adaptation. To introduce this therapeutic view to neurorehabilitation, we apply the theoretical tenets of the enactive paradigm to the rehabilitation of a woman with severe behavioral and cognitive impairment. Over seventeen sessions, her behavioral and cognitive performance was assessed in relation to two seated affordances (seated on a chair and seated on a ball 65 cm in diameter) and the environmental adaptation while she was working on various cognitive tasks. These two seated affordances allowed to incorporate the theoretical assumptions of the enactive approach and to know how the behavior and the cognition were modified based on these two postural settings and the environmental adaptation. The findings indicate that the subject exhibited better behavioral (physical and verbal) and cognitive (matching success and complex task) performances when the woman worked on the therapeutic ball than when the woman was on the chair. The enactive paradigm applied in neurorehabilitation introduces a level of treatment that precedes behavior and cognition. This theoretical consideration allowed the discovery of a better relation between a seated affordance and the environmental adaptation for the improvement behavioral and cognitive performance in our case study.
844	enactive	2016	Iliopoulos, A	The Evolution of Material Signification: Tracing the Origins of Symbolic Body Ornamentation through a Pragmatic and Enactive Theory of Cognitive Semiotics	SIGNS AND SOCIETY	Prehistoric archaeologists generally treat early body ornaments, such as the Blombos shell beads, as inherently symbolic artefacts that were created by symbolically capable brains. Essentially, they treat material signs in strictly linguistic terms and view them as the epiphenomenal products of internal representations that were used as templates. Yet material signification is neither inherently symbolic, nor the a priori product of innate neural structures. We must thus opt for a pragmatic semiotic theory that can describe the physical qualities and relations of material signs, and an enactive theory of cognition that can explain the anchoring of novel concepts to the material world. In synergistically fusing these strands, this article puts forth a pragmatic and enactive theory of cognitive semiotics. By applying this evolutionary epistemology to the case of early body ornamentation, this study traces the prehistoric process of semiotic scaffolding that eventually led to development of symbolic artefacts and practices.
845	enactive	2016	Hibbert, R	LIS and BCIs: a Local, Pluralist, and Pragmatist Approach to 4E Cognition	NEUROETHICS	Four previous papers in this journal have discussed the role of Brain-Computer Interfaces (BCIs) in the lives of Locked-In Syndrome (LIS) patients in terms of the four "E" frameworks for cognition - extended, embedded, embodied, and enactive (also called enacted) cognition. This paper argues that in the light of more recent literature on these 4E frameworks, none of the four papers has taken quite the right approach to deciding which, if any, of the E frameworks is the best one for the job. More specifically, I argue for an approach that is pragmatist rather than purely metaphysical, pluralist rather than monist, and perhaps most importantly, local to particular research programmes, rather than about BCIs in general. The paper will outline this approach, then illustrate it with reference to a particular research programme which tackles the issue of BCI communication for patients in Complete Locked-In Syndrome (CLIS).
846	enactive	2016	Lo Presti, P	Whose mind? Two interpretations of what it is to directly perceive other minds	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	According to direct perception theory (DPT) people understand each other's minds by way of perceiving each other's behavioral engagements in the world. I argue that DPT admits of two interpretations. One interpretation is found in Searle's social ontology. The other interpretation departs from an enactivist account of social cognition. Both can make sense of what it is to perceive other minds, but in two different ways. The first claims that people can directly perceive states of mind shared in a community. In contrast, the second interpretation allows for direct perception of particular individuals' states of mind in the context of participation in social practices. The two interpretations are argued to be compatible. People can perceive communal states of mind in another's responsiveness to action possibilities in social environments, not only the particular other's states of mind.
847	enactive	2016	Rodriguez, S	Recurrences and Human Agential Meaning Grounding: Laying a Path in Walking	BIOSEMIOTICS	This article addresses the semiotic problem of how meaning is agentially grounded: how actual meaning is possible and is justifiably supported by agents' capabilities and purposes. This article is particularly focused on human agential grounding; however, to a great degree, insights presented here can be extended to other living beings. Specifically, agential meaning is examined here inside the framework of agentive semiotics and embodied, situated and enactive cognition theories, in line with the mind-life continuity general thesis (which intends to naturalize mind and experience). To offer clarity and methodological precision about agential grounding, three explanation categories (called recurrences) are proposed: phylogenetic recurrence, the evolutionary basis for corporal/embodied grounding; ontogenetic recurrence, the developmental basis for individual meaning grounding; and collective recurrence, the basis for meaning recognized, attributed and assigned inside social contexts. These recurrences are conceived as three types of general processes that constantly enclose possibilities for purpose and meaning emergence in humans. As a result of these types of recurrences, two categories of human agendas or purposes are also proposed: individual and collective. Finally, remarks about how these categories can be useful for semiotic analysis and further research are suggested.
848	enactive	2016	Deschamps, L; Lenay, C; Rovira, K; Le Bihan, G; Aubert, D	Joint Perception of a Shared Object: A Minimalist Perceptual Crossing Experiment	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The minimalist perceptual crossing paradigm has emphasized the essential role of interpersonal dynamics on social understanding. Within the particular case of minimalist interaction, it has been argued that interpersonal processes can constitute social cognition, at least partially, which calls for a paradigm shift in social cognition studies. In this paper, we review several perceptual crossing experiments and their theoretical implications, and propose an original experiment to go beyond strictly dyadic interactions. Whereas past experiments have used objects as distracters of dyadic interaction, our experiment aims at integrating objects themselves as the goal of interpersonal coordination. We asked 24 subjects to participate in a minimalist perceptual crossing experiment where they had to decide, based on their on-line interaction in a one-dimensional digital space, which of the objects they perceived was also perceptible by their partner. The main results suggest that the mutual awareness of a shared object (SO) arises from the quality of sensorimotor coordination between the partners. Indeed, the presence of a SO acts as a simultaneous affordance that attracts and structures individual perceptive activities, giving both partners the opportunity to co-construct a shared world where their respective actions make sense. We discuss our results by way of an enactive account of social cognition, taking the joint perception of a SO as a first step to account for joint attention.
849	enactive	2016	Woodward, M	A shifting sense of human scale: Tracing 'deep time' aspects of modern depiction	QUATERNARY INTERNATIONAL	The affective status of the material world as it pertains to the historical development of human cognition and activity lies at the centre of the current discourse of cognitive archaeology. Through applications of 'enactive' conceptions of mind the notion of a human mind that imposes its will upon an inert material world is being challenged by recognising how the mind emerges through the material engagement of an embodied subject that is always coupled to an affective material world. The active role played by materials in the development of cognition reveals a dynamic entwining of mind and matter across past spatiotemporal trajectories that positions human artefacts as a trace of such an entwining. There are two central point's drawn from this context that are important for the discussion within this paper: firstly, the significance of the development of human perceptual experience and cognition that is relational to the material world; secondly how a more focussed study of human perception reveals how the material world itself (its status and meaning) emerges as relational to human experience. The emergence of the concept of 'deep geological time' during the nineteenth century will be used as an object of study in which the idea of geological deep time (its theory and its continued development) emerges alongside, and shapes, an historically contingent perceptual experience that itself plays an active role in the very shaping of the idea of geological deep time. This emergent relationship will be made more tangible through an art historical iconological study of a range of visual artefacts - artistic and naturalistic images of deep time - during this period readable through the changes and transformations of certain stylistic and compositional strategies used to depict human figures within the works. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd and INQUA. All rights reserved.
850	enactive	2016	Barrett, L	Why Brains Are Not Computers, Why Behaviorism Is Not Satanism, and Why Dolphins Are Not Aquatic Apes	BEHAVIOR ANALYST	Modern psychology has, to all intents and purposes, become synonymous with cognitive psychology, with an emphasis on the idea that the brain is a form of computer, whose job is to take in sensory input, process information, and produce motor output. This places the brain at a remove from both the body and environment and denies the intimate connection that exists between them. As a result, a great injustice is done to both human and nonhuman animals: On the one hand, we fail to recognize the distinctive nature of nonhuman cognition, and on the other hand, we continue to promote a somewhat misleading view of human psychological capacities. Here, I suggest a more mutualistic, embodied, enactive view might allow us to ask more interesting questions about how animals of all kinds come to know their worlds, in ways that avoid the (inevitable) anthropocentric baggage of the cognitivist viewpoint.
851	enactive	2016	Di Paolo, E	Participatory Object Perception	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	Social factors have so far been neglected in embodied theories of perception despite the wealth of phenomenological insights and empirical evidence indicating their importance. I examine evidence from developmental psychology and neuroscience and attempt an initial classification according to whether social factors play a contextual, enabling, or constitutive role in the ability to perceive objects in a detached manner, i.e. beyond their immediate instrumental use. While evidence of cross-cultural variations in perceptual styles and the influence of social cues on visual attention could not be said to play more than a contextual role, other factors such as the intricate developmental links between dyadic and triadic interactions in infancy, as well as episodes of peer-learning in children, play enabling roles. A common element in these factors is the presence and resolution of interpersonal conflict. Detached object perception could not develop without these social factors. I argue, in addition, that social skills such as managing partial social acts which are addressed to and completed by others, linguistic mediation, make-believe play, and the ability to control perspectival switches are constitutive - i.e. are of the essence - of the ability to see objects as present with a detached attitude. I discuss the prospects of incorporating such social elements into dynamical interpretations of the sensorimotor approach through the enactive notion of participatory sense-making.
852	enactive	2016	Moore, RK	Introducing a Pictographic Language for Envisioning a Rich Variety of Enactive Systems with Different Degrees of Complexity	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ADVANCED ROBOTIC SYSTEMS	Notwithstanding the considerable amount of progress that has been made in recent years, the parallel fields of cognitive science and cognitive systems lack a unifying methodology for describing, understanding, simulating and implementing advanced cognitive behaviours. Growing interest in 'enactivism' - as pioneered by the Chilean biologists Humberto Maturana and Francisco Varela - may lead to new perspectives in these areas, but a common framework for expressing many of the key concepts is still missing. This paper attempts to lay a tentative foundation in that direction by extending Maturana and Varela's pictographic depictions of autopoietic unities to create a rich visual language for envisioning a wide range of enactive systems - natural or artificial - with different degrees of complexity. It is shown how such a diagrammatic taxonomy can help in the comprehension of important relationships between a variety of complex concepts from a pan- theoretic perspective. In conclusion, it is claimed that visual language is not only valuable for teaching and learning, but also offers important insights into the design and implementation of future advanced robotic systems.
853	enactive	2016	Lazzeri, F	On some common objections to a behavioral approach to psychological categories	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper addresses several objections that have been leveled against a behavioral approach to psychological categories. It reconstructs and critically assesses (a) the so-called causal objection; (b) alleged counterexamples whereby one can exhibit the typical behaviors associated with a psychological phenomenon without exhibiting the latter, including Lewis' "perfect actor" case and Kirk's "zombie"; (c) alleged counterexamples whereby organisms can exemplify psychological phenomena without exhibiting any behavior associated with them, including Armstrong's imagined brain in a vat, Putnam's "super-super-spartans" scenario, and related cases; and (d) the holistic objection. Mistaken assumptions in each of these objections are pinpointed. The paper starts with a brief characterization of behaviorism about psychological categories and a summary of the particular version thereof supported here, which draws upon Ryle and Skinner, among others.
854	enactive	2016	Solomonova, E; Wei, SX	Exploring the Depth of Dream Experience The Enactive Framework and Methods for Neurophenomenological Research	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	> Context Phenomenology and the enactive approach pose a unique challenge to dream research: during sleep one seems to be relatively disconnected from both world and body. Movement and perception, prerequisites for sensorimotor subjectivity, are restricted; the dreamer's experience is turned inwards. In cognitive neurosciences, on the other hand, the generally accepted approach holds that dream formation is a direct result of neural activations in the absence of perception, and dreaming is often equated with "delusions." > Problem Can enactivism and phenomenology account for the variety of dream experiences? What kinds of experiential and empirical approaches are required in order to probe into dreaming subjectivity? Investigating qualities of perception, sensation, and embodiment in dreams, as well as the relationship between the dream-world and waking-world requires a step away from a delusional or altered-state framework of dream formation and a step toward an enactive integrative approach. > Method In this article, we will focus on the "depth" of dream experiences, i.e., what is possible in the dream state. Our article is divided into two parts: a theoretical framework for approaching dreaming from an enactive cognition standpoint; and discussion of the role and strategies for experimentation on dreaming. Based on phenomenology and theories of enactivism, we will argue for the primacy of subjectivity and imagination in the formation of lived experience. > Results We propose that neurophenomenology of dreaming is a nascent discipline that requires rethinking the relative role of third-, first-and second-person methodologies, and that a paradigm shift is required in order to investigate dreaming as a phenomenon on a continuum of conscious phenomena as opposed to a break from or an alteration of consciousness. > Implications Dream science, as part of the larger enterprise of consciousness and subjectivity studies, can be included in the enactive framework. This implies that dream experiences are neither passively lived nor functionally disconnected from dreamers' world and body. We propose the basis and some concrete strategies for an empirical enactive neurophenomenology of dreaming. We conclude that investigating dream experiences can illuminate qualities of subjective perception and relation to the world, and thus challenge the traditional subject-object juxtaposition. > Constructivist content This article argues for an interdisciplinary enactive cognitive science approach to dream studies.
855	enactive	2016	Malinin, LH	Creative Practices Embodied, Embedded, and Enacted in Architectural Settings: Toward an Ecological Model of Creativity	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Memoires by eminently creative people often describe architectural spaces and qualities they believe instrumental for their creativity. However, places designed to encourage creativity have had mixed results, with some found to decrease creative productivity for users. This may be due, in part, to lack of suitable empirical theory or model to guide design strategies. Relationships between creative cognition and features of the physical environment remain largely uninvestigated in the scientific literature, despite general agreement among researchers that human cognition is physically and socially situated. This paper investigates what role architectural settings may play in creative processes by examining documented first person and biographical accounts of creativity with respect to three central theories of situated cognition. First, the embodied thesis argues that cognition encompasses both the mind and the body. Second, the embedded thesis maintains that people exploit features of the physical and social environment to increase their cognitive capabilities. Third, the enaction thesis describes cognition as dependent upon a person's interactions with the world. Common themes inform three propositions, illustrated in a new theoretical framework describing relationships between people and their architectural settings with respect to different cognitive processes of creativity. The framework is intended as a starting point toward an ecological model of creativity, which may be used to guide future creative process research and architectural design strategies to support user creative productivity.
856	enactive	2016	Bizzari, V; Hipolito, I	PREDICTIVE ENGAGEMENT AND MOTOR INTENTIONALITY	ESERCIZI FILOSOFICI	In this paper we aim to show that motor intentionality, as the underlying ground for social cognition, can be explained through the predictive engagement model. Sensorimotor processes seem to play central roles in social interaction, cognition and language. We question the phenomenological role of the body in social cognition and further investigate a causal neural explanation. We will adopt a different perspective by linking the role of the body and intercorporeality with recent findings in philosophy of neuroscience under the predictive brain hypothesis. In fact, the living body seems to entertain a dialogical and enactive relationship with the surrounding context, as well as with neural circuits actively responding to external stimuli. The body is thus configured as a living organism, and not as a mere biological substratum, offering to phenomenology and empirical sciences further confirmations of the possibility-and need-for a cooperation.
857	enactive	2016	Bizzari, V; Hipolito, I	PREDICTIVE ENGAGEMENT AND MOTOR INTENTIONALITY	ESERCIZI FILOSOFICI	In this paper we aim to show that motor intentionality, as the underlying ground for social cognition, can be explained through the predictive engagement model. Sensorimotor processes seem to play central roles in social interaction, cognition and language. We question the phenomenological role of the body in social cognition and further investigate a causal neural explanation. We will adopt a different perspective by linking the role of the body and intercorporeality with recent findings in philosophy of neuroscience under the predictive brain hypothesis. In fact, the living body seems to entertain a dialogical and enactive relationship with the surrounding context, as well as with neural circuits actively responding to external stimuli. The body is thus configured as a living organism, and not as a mere biological substratum, offering to phenomenology and empirical sciences further confirmations of the possibility-and need-for a cooperation.
858	enactive	2016	Brito, CF; Marques, VX	Is There a Role for Computation in the Enactive Paradigm?	FUNDAMENTAL ISSUES OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The main contribution of this paper is a naturalized account of the phenomenon of computation. The key idea for the development of this account is the identification of the notion of syntactical processing (or information processing) with the dynamical evolution of a constrained physical process, based on the observation that both evolve according to an arbitrary set of rules. This identification, in turn, revealed that, from the physical point of view, computation could be understood in terms of the operation of a component subdivided into two parts, (a) the constrained process and (b) the constraints that control its dynamics, where the interactions with the rest of the system are mediated by configurational changes of the constrained process. The immediate consequence of this analysis is the observation that this notion of computation can be readily integrated into the enactive paradigm of cognition.
859	enactive	2016	Brody, J	The Enacted KOAN - An Agent's Knowledge of Agency	7TH ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON BIOLOGICALLY INSPIRED COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURES, (BICA 2016)	We present Knowledge Of Action Networks, which provide an enactive machine learning model for knowledge of agency in artificial intelligence. These networks, which are expected to be part of embodied intelligences existing in dynamic environments, learn to represent their environment while simultaneously learning to represent their own actions and bodies within that environment. Thus self and world are intricately coupled in their basic representations. We will also explore some of the (many) expected contributions of such networks for implementing minimal self-models, which are basic models of self-aware agents.
860	enactive	2016	Cappuccio, ML	The Seminal Speculation of a Precursor: Elements of Embodied Cognition and Situated AI in Alan Turing	FUNDAMENTAL ISSUES OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	Turing's visionary contribution to cognitive science is not limited to the foundation of the symbolist approach to cognition and to the exploration of the connectionist approach: it additionally anticipated the germinal disclosure of the embodied approach. Even if Turing never directly dealt with the foundational speculation on the conceptual premises of embodiment, in his theoretical papers we find traces of the idea that a cognitive agent must develop a history of coupling with its natural and social environment, and that primitive bodily stimuli like pain and pleasure drive this coupling and elevate it to real learning by setting its normative preconditions. Turing did not consistently defend the centrality of embodiment, and ended up confounding or deemphasizing in various occasions the critical importance that he had himself implicitly recognized to the body. In line with the anti-representationist, radically enactive approaches to basic cognition, I believe that if Turing eventually failed to fully value the cognitive-developmental role played by the body, this was not because he proposed a computational and functionalist model of the mind, but because he tacitly assumed the content/vehicle dichotomy as a primitive of that model: in fact, he still believed that intelligence is a realized by decontextualized contents that can be detached and transmitted regardless of their mode of physical implementation.
861	enactive	2016	Ciolkosz, M	Investigating the Structure of Religious Concepts A Few Remarks from the Perspective of Enactivism and Cognitive Linguistics	OPEN THEOLOGY	The aim of the paper is to discuss the possible application of the theory of embodied cognition and the category of image schemata to the study of religious concepts within the Cognitive Science of Religion. Departing from the notion of counterintuitiveness and Boyer's description of religious representations as minimally counterintuitive, the author briefly discusses the critique of this approach. Subsequently, different models of mind and cognition within the Cognitive Science are summarised, with special attention given to the enactive approach, as proposed by Varela, Thompson and Rosch. The notion of embodied meaning, situated within enactivism, is then discussed, together with Johnson's concept of image schemata as basic semantic units. To discuss the applicability of image schemata in the study of religious concepts, the author summarises a case study, related to the interpretation of the categories of samkhya-yoga darsana in Iyengar Yoga.
862	enactive	2016	Cresswell, J; Rivas, RF	Cognition, Culture and Religion The Ontogenetic Role of Culture and its Consequences in the Study of Religious Experiences	OPEN THEOLOGY	The present paper is both a critical analysis of the reductive problems inherent in an evolutionary approach that surfaces in the Cognitive Science of Religion (CSR) and an appeal for an enactive turn that can enhance CSR by better accounting for religious experience - i.e. the phenomenologically experienced realities that are entailed in religious belief. First, we discuss CSR and a basic evolutionary presupposition: that religious experience is based on a universal architecture designed by natural selection, which includes the notion of domain-specific processing mechanisms. We then discuss how Cultural Psychologists conceive of the ontogenetic role of culture by arguing that religious cognition does not solely develop out of evolution. As we propose, CSR can be studied with a view to the evolution of cognition that can account for the ontogenetic role of culture and language constituting phenomenologically immediate realities. Finally, we discuss enactivism as an ideal alternative for such a shift. Enactivism conceives the relation between the evolution of cognition and the ontogenetic role of culture as embodied: a non-reductive relation in which cognition and culture shape each other. This approach allows for CSR that acknowledges the fact that religious experiences constitute non-representational but lived experiences.
863	enactive	2016	Jansen, J	Imagination and 4E Cognition: An Analytic-Continental Exchange	ANALYTIC AND CONTINENTAL PHILOSOPHY: METHODS AND PERSPECTIVES	The interdisciplinary field of phenomenology and cognitive science is thriving. Recently, it has gained even further ground through the rise of a new cluster of paradigms in philosophy of mind and cognitive science, which can be collectively referred as the model of "4E cognition". This model takes cognitive processes to be Embodied, Enactive, Embedded, and/or Extended. Those 4 e's enable fertile crossovers between analytic and continental approaches in philosophy of mind, phenomenology, and cognitive science. All of this is very promising indeed. However, despite the irrefutable significance of these new developments, more work needs to be done to ease up constraints and limitations that attest to the lasting effects of "common sense" naturalist, or positivist biases in philosophy of mind and the cognitive sciences. These biases may have little effect on research focused on perceptual cognition, but they pose noticeable constraints on research focused on imagination. In this paper, I identify and then challenge some of these biases with a view to making the model of 4E cognition more obviously applicable to issues of imagination. However, I believe it is important to acknowledge that other obstacles also hamper imagination research in significant ways and for more than merely philosophical or scientific reasons.
864	enactive	2016	Lenartowicz, M; Weinbaum, D; Braathen, P	The Individuation of Social Systems: A Cognitive Framework	7TH ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON BIOLOGICALLY INSPIRED COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURES, (BICA 2016)	We present a socio-human cognitive framework that radically deemphasizes the role of individual human agents required for both the formation of social systems and their ongoing operation thereafter. Our point of departure is Simondon's (1992) theory of individuation, which we integrate with the enactive theory of cognition (Di Paolo et al., 2010) and Luhmann's (1996) theory of social systems. This forges a novel view of social systems as complex, individuating sequences of communicative interactions that together constitute distributed yet distinct cognitive agencies, acquiring a capacity to exert influence over their human-constituted environment. We conclude that the resulting framework suggests several different paths of integrating AI agents into human society. One path suggests the emulation of a largely simplified version of the human mind, reduced in its functions to a specific triple selection-making which is necessary for sustaining social systems. Another one conceives AI systems that follow the distributed, autonomous architecture of social systems, instead that of humans.
865	enactive	2016	Mandanici, M; Roda, A; Canazza, S	The Harmonic Walk: An Interactive Physical Environment to Learn Tonal Melody Accompaniment	ADVANCES IN MULTIMEDIA	The Harmonic Walk is an interactive physical environment designed for learning and practicing the accompaniment of a tonal melody. Employing a highly innovative multimedia system, the application offers to the user the possibility of getting in touch with some fundamental tonal music features in a very simple and readily available way. Notwithstanding tonal music is very common in our lives, unskilled people as well as music students and even professionals are scarcely conscious of what these features actually are. The Harmonic Walk, through the body movement in space, can provide all these users a live experience of tonal melody structure, chords progressions, melody accompaniment, and improvisation. Enactive knowledge and embodied cognition allow the user to build an inner map of these musical features, which can be acted by moving on the active surface with a simple step. Thorough assessment tests with musicians and nonmusicians high school students could prove the high communicative power and efficiency of the Harmonic Walk application both in improving musical knowledge and in accomplishing complex musical tasks.
866	enactive	2016	Mottet, M; Eccles, DW; Saury, J	Navigation in outdoor environments as an embodied, social, cultural, and situated experience: An empirical study of orienteering	SPATIAL COGNITION AND COMPUTATION	This study investigated novices' lived experiences of navigation within the sport of orienteering from an enactive and phenomenological approach. The objective was to qualitatively characterize elements of task-related situations that were meaningful for orienteers. The results showed that the participants continuously made judgments about the reliability of their estimations about whether they were on the right route on the course. When the participants judged that they were only approximately on the right route or were unable to locate themselves, elements of the situation other than map and terrain features became meaningful for them. These results demonstrate that, for novice orienteers, navigation activity must extend beyond navigation as a logical, computational way-finding problem to include embodied, social, cultural and situated dimensions.
867	enactive	2016	Ouml;stersjo, S	Go To Hell: Towards a Gesture-Based Compositional Practice	Contemporary Music Review	This paper discusses musical gesture from an understanding of musical perception as embodied and enactive, also drawing specifically on Denis Smalley's [(2007). Space-form and the acousmatic image. Organised Sound, 12(1), 35-58] analysis of performed space. I will provide examples of how choreographies (performed by musicians, with and without their instruments), new music (for Vietnamese and Western instruments), installations, and video art have all been drawn from analysis of gesture in Ostersjo's performance of the guitar composition Toccata Orpheus by Rolf Riehm [1990. Toccata Orpheus. Munich: Ricordi]. In Riehm's piece, the bodily action of the performer is treated as an intentional compositional parameter and the notated structure thus generates a specific choreography in performance. In Go To Hell, this approach is taken further towards the development of a gesture-based compositional practice, where composition is understood, not as the organisation of sound objects, but as the structuring of gestural-sonic objects [Godoy, R. I. (2006). Gestural-sonorous objects: Embodied extensions of schaeffer's conceptual apparatus. Organised Sound, 11 (2), 149-157; Ostersjo, S. (2008). SHUT UP 'N' PLAY! Negotiating the musical work (PhD thesis). Lund University, Malmo].
868	enactive	2015	Vasterling, V	Heidegger's hermeneutic account of cognition	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Hermeneutic phenomenology is absent in 4 EAC literature (embedded, embodied, enactive, extended and affective cognition). The aim of this article is to show that hermeneutic phenomenology as elaborated in the work of Heidegger is relevant to 4 EAC research. In the first part of the article I describe the hermeneutic turn Heidegger performs in tandem with his ontological turn of transcendental phenomenology, and the hermeneutic account of cognition resulting from it. I explicate the main thesis of the hermeneutic account, namely that cognition is interaction with the world, followed by a discussion of the modes of cognition distinguished in the hermeneutic account. In the second part of the article I discuss the implications of this account with respect to the status and meaning of first, second and third person perspective of cognition. The article concludes with the draft and discussion of an exploratory model of hermeneutic cognition.
869	enactive	2015	Laroche, J; Kaddouch, I	Spontaneous preferences and core tastes: embodied musical personality and dynamics of interaction in a pedagogical method of improvisation	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Free improvisations are unprecedented and underdetermined: their content and the way they unfold are not known in advance. Improvised performances have to be actively shaped over time. To do so, the improviser must articulate his embodied experience. In other words, he has to make sense of his experience' by relying on his bodily know-how. And so this process of improvisation personally involves the improviser. Therefore, it should be a relevant point of entry for the study of his musical "personality" (or "identity:' see I Iargreaves et al., 2002). Firstly, to put this argument forward, we link free improvisations and personality in the light of embodied (enactive) and dynamical approaches. However, free improvisations are often played as a group. Secondly, so as to link improvisations and personality in the context of human interactions, we present a pedagogical method of free improvisation (the Kaddouch pedagogy; Kaddough and Miravete, 2012) in which interactivity between learner and teacher is a core aspect. Then, we will show that the process of interaction by itself allows to unveil, to foster and to expand both improvisational skills and musical personality. Finally, we propose theoretical bases for this method, plus some explanations dealing with its effects.
870	enactive	2015	van der Merwe, L	The first experiences of music students with Dalcroze-inspired activities: A phenomenological study	PSYCHOLOGY OF MUSIC	This phenomenological study investigated the meaning of Dalcroze-inspired activities for first-year Baccalareus Musicae (BMus) students during a music education module and describes the essence of this experience for them. In the first semesters of 2011 and 2013, these movement activities were concurrently facilitated during workshops by a licensed Dalcroze teacher and during the semester by a senior lecturer in music education. In the first semester of 2012, a Dalcroze student in her final year presented workshops and another music education lecturer facilitated the activities. Data were collected by means of in-depth interviews, reflective essays and reflective descriptions until data saturation was reached. Data were organized using Atlas.ti 7 and analysed by means of coding, categorizing, and the identification of themes. The following main themes have been identified: social integration, joyful experience, bodily experience, easier understanding, and musical expression. This article will provide a deeper understanding of what it is like for first-year BMus students in South Africa to experience Dalcroze-inspired activities. Their experiences can inform the use of Dalcroze-inspired activities in music education at tertiary level and support advocacy for the embodied and enactive view of music cognition.
871	enactive	2015	Cerulo, KA	The Embodied Mind: Building on Wacquant's Carnal Sociology	QUALITATIVE SOCIOLOGY	This essay responds to Wacquant's call for a "Carnal Sociology"aEuro"an approach best realized through a method Wacquant calls "enactive ethnography." In this essay, I explore the ways in which certain aspects of Wacquant's carnal sociology-specifically the sentient, the sedimented and the situated-can enhance our understanding of cognition and meaning-making. I reference an ongoing research project on the deciphering of olfactory messages to make my case.
872	enactive	2015	Stapleton, M	A Dynamic Expedition through the Affective Landscape	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	Colombetti's book is a contribution to the literature of at least three intellectual communities within philosophy and the cognitive sciences: affective science, embodiment, and enactivism. Despite the emphasis on embodiment over the past ten to fifteen years, and the resurgence of interest in emotion in the mid-to-late twentieth century, affect nevertheless remains underrepresented in the philosophy of mind and cognition, even in the embodiment and enactive communities. In her book, Colombetti helps to close this gap in the literature.
873	enactive	2015	Chien, JP	Between emotion, imagination and cognition: Play as a hybrid neuro-evolutionary concept in bridging Saussure, Hegel and Alexander von Humboldt	SIGN SYSTEMS STUDIES	This study seeks to discover hidden links between Saussure's Third Course of Lectures on General Linguistics, Hegel's Introductory Lectures on Aesthetics/Philosophy of Mind and Alexander von Humboldt's Cosmos. To begin with, the notion of play is employed to examine the interplay between our emotion, imagination and cognition, and to examine how such a composite of faculties serves to unify conceptualizations of communication-modelling systems, philosophical hermeneutics and moral psychology in our times. At discovering a certain future-oriented and symbiotic scheme of time implied in these theories, the inquiry moves on to engage with certain perspectives on the evolution of our verbal and nonverbal capacities. Further, observations concerning the actual functioning of mirror neurons in humans are introduced to revise our understanding of the enactive power of nonverbal capacities such as feeling and imagining. The hypothesis made by neuropsychologists concerning the correlation between the mirror and sign systems reveals significant connections between Saussure, Hegel and Humboldt: our emotions and imagination are as schematic and extensive as our speech acts in teaming up with diverse beings and pushing for new solutions and deeper understandings. Finally, this study draws on implications of the empowered sign-cum-mirror system for revisiting certain controversial issues such as the emergence of language-ready brain and the urgency of overcoming eeriness in our linguistic and artistic world-making. It is suggested that we employ our capacities as a somatosensory system so as to on the one hand observe the changing coordination between our body and mind, and on the other, generate rewarding strategies for a greater success at dealing with intriguing patterns found in art, nature and culture.
874	enactive	2015	Froese, T	Enactive neuroscience, the direct perception hypothesis, and the socially extended mind	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Pessoa's The Cognitive-Emotional Brain (2013) is an integrative approach to neuroscience that complements other developments in cognitive science, especially enactivism. Both accept complexity as essential to mind; both tightly integrate perception, cognition, and emotion, which enactivism unifies in its foundational concept of sense-making; and both emphasize that the spatial extension of mental processes is not reducible to specific brain regions and neuroanatomical connectivity. An enactive neuroscience is emerging.
875	enactive	2015	Hadorn, B; Courant, M; Hirsbrunner, B	Holistic Integration of Enactive Entities into Cyber Physical Systems	2015 IEEE 2ND INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON CYBERNETICS (CYBCONF)	Cyber physical systems (CPSs) are built of physical components that are integrated into the cyber (virtual) world of computing. Whereas there are many open questions and challenges, such as time modeling, interaction between cyber and physical components, our research focuses on how humans can be holistically integrated. Our vision is to link human intelligence with CPS in order to get a smart partner for daily human activities. This will bring new system characteristics enabling to cope with self-awareness, cognition and creativity as well as the co-evolution of human-machine-symbiosis. In this sense, we state that drawing borders between virtual and physical or between users and technical artifacts is misleading. In contrast to that, we aim to treat the system as a whole. To achieve this, the paper presents a generic coordination model based on third-order cybernetics. In particular, the holistic integration of humans and other living systems into CPSs is presented, which leads toward human-centered CPSs.
876	enactive	2015	Merlin, B	"This Side of Reality" Thoughts and Provocations Regarding Acting and Stanislavski	STANISLAVSKI STUDIES	What does it mean to be "real" in performance? Referencing her work with Phillip B. Zarrilli and Andy Lavender, Bella Merlin raises a series of five provocations about contemporary acting practice that range from "What do we think we're doing when we're acting?" to an exploration of aspects of Stanislavski's toolkit. Drawing together perezhivanie ("living through a role") with cognitive investigations into the "enactive" nature of human existence, Merlin explores the usefulness of Stanislavski's "here-today-now" to overcome dislocations from the character and as a potential antidote to stage fright. Proposing that Stanislavski's own stage fright prompted some of his acting experiments, Merlin suggests that actor-training is on the brink of a paradigm shift. As our understanding of cognitive science and human biology evolves, so too must acting processes, and the enactive approach considers emotion and cognition as unified parts of the process. Merlin also proposes that Stanislavski's Active Analysis - with its emphasis on improvisation - was an intuitive response on Stanislavski's part to what we now know scientifically of the operation of human interactions.
877	enactive	2015	Olender, J	Enactive Cognition at the Edge of Sense-Making. Making Sense of Non Sense	AVANT	0
878	enactive	2015	Pugliese, R; Forger, K; Takala, T	Game Experience When Controlling a Weak Avatar in Full-Body Enaction	INTELLIGENT VIRTUAL AGENTS, IVA 2015	In this paper we describe a motion-controlled game based on a paradigm of a player enacting the character, rather than a character mimicking the player's action. Our hypothesis is that a controlling scheme based on the adaptation of a player to the way the avatar is able to perform actions, can result in a stronger presence and psychological bond to the character. The approach is based on previous studies showing that features, attitudes and behaviors of the digital representation of players in a virtual reality setting, alter the players self-perception in the virtual environment (Proteus effect). The interaction mechanism is inspired by enactive approach to cognition and embodied action. In a mini-game we explore effects of controlling a weak character on self-presence and identification with the avatar. We show that increasing degrees of effort in the controlled bodies resulted in different impressions of the physical state of the character. Additionally, we provide our interpretation of relation between game experience and the kinetic parameters and adaptation indicators extracted from the motion of the player and avatar. Finally, we address scenarios where this enaction-based approach to motion controlled avatar can find application.
879	enactive	2014	Gallagher, S	PRAGMATIC INTERVENTIONS INTO ENACTIVE AND EXTENDED CONCEPTIONS OF COGNITION	PHILOSOPHICAL ISSUES	Clear statements of both extended and enactive conceptions of cognition can be found in John Dewey and other pragmatists. In this paper I'll argue that we can find resources in the pragmatists to address two ongoing debates: (1) in contrast to recent disagreements between proponents of extended vs enactive cognition, pragmatism supports a more integrative viewan enactive conception of extended cognition, and (2) pragmatist views suggest ways to answer the main objections raised against extended and enactive conceptionsspecifically objections focused on constitution versus causal factors, and the mark of the mental.
880	enactive	2014	Loughlin, V	Radical enactivism, Wittgenstein and the cognitive gap	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	REC or radical enactive (or embodied) cognition involves the claim that certain forms of mentality do not involve informational content and are instead to be equated with temporally and spatially extended physical interactions between an agent and the environment. REC also claims however that other forms of mentality do involve informational content and are scaffolded by socially and linguistically enabled practices. This seems to raise what can be called a cognitive gap question, namely, how do non-contentful behaviours give rise to contentful behaviours? In this paper, I show how REC can tackle a certain understanding of this question. I argue that if REC were to endorse claims made by the later Wittgenstein, then REC could deny that there is any (synchronous) gap in our intelligent behaviour.
881	enactive	2014	Uithol, S; Maranesi, M	No need to match: a comment on Bach, Nicholson and Hudson's "Affordance-Matching Hypothesis"	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	0
882	enactive	2014	De Jesus, P	Can the revolution be optimised? Oh yes it can! But, maybe not. Report on the one day symposium on "Varieties of Enactivism"	CONNECTION SCIENCE	The Varieties of Enactivism: A Conceptual Geography 4th April 2014, was a one day symposium which took place at Goldsmith University, London. The symposium had the explicit aim of clarifying the status of enactive cognitive science both as a unified paradigm for cognitive science and in relation to the broader embodied cognition framework. In what follows I offer a brief summery of the various talks followed by some thoughts on the current state of play within enactivism.
883	enactive	2014	Troscianko, ET	First-Person and Second-Generation Perspectives on Starvation in Kafka's "Ein Hungerkunstler"	STYLE	An important claim made for second-generation accounts of cognition is that they help solve the problem of dualism, which arguably remains unchallenged in much literary criticism. Kafka's short story "Ein Hungerkunstler" (A Hunger Artist) is about a profoundly embodied experience of (unsuccessfully) denying embodiment: fasting to death. With this text's cognitive realism as my focal point, I use insights from second-generation cognitive science (which acknowledges the embodied, embedded, enactive, and extended nature of human cognition), including research on eating disorders and starvation, to provide purchase on two traditional literary-critical concerns: thematic interpretation and paradox. I also suggest that a first-person perspective which acknowledges the complexities of individual real-world embodiment may sometimes enrich cognitive literary studies. This combined first-person and second-generation methodology can help us recognize that for the real people who read our scholarship and learn from us, the dangers of dualism are ethically as well as interpretively profound.
884	enactive	2014	Troscianko, ET	Reading Kafka Enactively	PARAGRAPH	I argue that understanding cognition as enactivethat is, as constituted of physical interaction between embodied minds and the environmentcan illuminate the opening of Kafka's novel Der Proce ss (The Trial), revealing it as cognitively realistic in this respect. I show how enactivism is relevant to this passage in several ways: in terms of enactive vision and imagination (based on the sensorimotor account of vision), enactive language (with a focus on basic-level categorization and readers' motor responses), and enactive emotion (drawing on appraisal theory). I also suggest that these cognitively realistic features might result in ambivalent reactions on the reader's part.
885	enactive	2014	0	Enactive Cognition at the Edge of Sense-Making: Making Sense of Non-Sense	ENACTIVE COGNITION AT THE EDGE OF SENSE-MAKING: MAKING SENSE OF NON-SENSE	0
886	enactive	2013	Sato, Y; Iizuka, H; Ikegami, T	Investigating Extended Embodiment Using a Computational Model and Human Experimentation	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	Context . Our body schema is not restricted to biological body boundaries (such as the skin), as can be seen in the use of a cane by a person who is visually impaired or the "rubber hands" experiment. The tool becomes a part of the body schema when the focus of our attention is shifted from the tool to the task to be performed. Problem . A body schema is formed through interactions among brain, body, tool, and environment. Nevertheless, the dynamic mechanisms underlying changes in the body schema are still not fully understood. Method . To study the changing conditions of the body schema (e.g., a shift of attention), a simulation model of object discrimination was extended to differentiate between two kinds of sensitivities - sensitivity to an object being directly manipulated and sensitivity to another object being manipulated by the first. The proposed model consisted of windmills with different numbers of vanes. A model agent was required to determine the number of vanes on a windmill by touching the vanes blindly with an arm controlled by a neural network. Placing a second windmill beside the first and gearing the two windmills to move associatively resulted in the agent using the first windmill as a tool with which to discern the number of vanes on the second windmill. In other words, an agent's body schema can shift from its arm tip to the boundary between the first and second windmills. We then introduced an experiment with a real windmill model to test the hypothesis demonstrated by the theoretical model. Results . We demonstrated that even simple computational agents can have two different sensitivities to the windmills. One agent becomes sensitive to the first windmill and insensitive to the second one. Another agent becomes insensitive to the first windmill and sensitive to the second one by using the first one as a tool. Therefore, we concluded that the boundary of the body schema was extended to the first windmill in the case of the latter agent because paying attention to the task to be performed instead of the tool itself is essential for the tool to be considered as part of the body schema. Analysis of the experiments using a computational model and human experimentation revealed that a shift from an irregular to a regular movement of a windmill is an indication of extension of the body schema. Constructivist content . Our insights are beneficial for enactive cognitive science. This is because an extended body schema questions the Cartesian separation between subject and object, and the self and the environment.
887	enactive	2013	Matyja, JR	Back to Basics	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	> Upshot circle Hutto & Myin's latest "radical enactive cognition" manifesto is a truly exciting book and - despite its short length - quite thick with argumentation. The word "manifesto" here does not only describe the rousing writing style (filled with witty and resounding expressions), but also the general awed feeling one gets, while reading, of the importance of "RECtifying" the current state of research in enactive cognition. Interestingly for the constructivist community, the hallmark thesis of their book is that there can be intentionally directed cognition and perceptual experience without content.
888	enactive	2013	Bottineau, D	The marker 'en' in enactive instructional linguistics	LANGUE FRANCAISE	The question whether the marker en in the various categories in which it appears (as a preposition and as various types of pronouns) has been widely debated. The present study is conducted in the theoretical framework of instructional grammars, which define signifiers as the activators of interpretive processes rather than as symbolic markers encoding mental representations, and it refers more specifically to enactive grammar. It is shown that it is possible to envisage a transcategorial core value of dynamic, non-representational nature, which applies to the whole range of grammatical categories in which this marker is manifested (preposition, gerundive particle, various types of pronouns and "fuzzy" particles).
889	enactive	2013	Mcclamrock, R	Visual Consciousness and The Phenomenology of Perception	METAPHILOSOPHY	Ideally, psychological and phenomenological studies of visual experience should be mutually informative. In that spirit, this article outlines parts of Maurice Merleau-Ponty's phenomenological view of visual experience as a kind of independently active opaque bodily synthesis, and uses those views to (a) help ground and extend Alva Noe's rejection of the snapshot theory of visual experience in favor of a more enactive view of visual content, (b) critique a failing of Noe's account, and (c) show how the assumptions underlying more internalist and Cartesian views of visual experience can illegitimately creep in even when they are being carefully criticized.
890	enactive	2013	Pacheco, BA; Souza-Concilio, IA	Multimodal Interfaces: An Enactive Approach	2013 IEEE 4TH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE INFOCOMMUNICATIONS (COGINFOCOM)	Cognitive infocommunications (CogInfoCom) study the connections between infocommunications and cognitive experiences. This paper matches with the purpose of the Conference because it explores Enactive knowledge and its relations with Interaction Design of Multimodal Interfaces. Enactive knowledge is what it is built through the action and is built on motor skills as manipulating an object, riding a bike or practicing sports. It is acquired by doing. On other hand, multimodal interfaces are known as inherently flexible, and to provide an especially ideal interface for accommodating both the changing demands on technology and the large individual differences present in the population. It's possible to affirm that the main concept of enactive interfaces is to allow the construction of knowledge and storage of information from interfaces that enable some kind of motor action. This paper aims to discuss the exploratory process of the relations between men and multimodal systems, prospecting new possibilities from an enactive vision and analyzing how it can substantially reduce the gap still existing between men and technology, especially in their everyday objects and devices.
891	enactive	2012	Matyja, JR	Me, Music, and I: Embodied and Enactive Cognition meets Music	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	> Upshot . The fact that both "consciousness" and "music" are quite elusive terms makes the attempt to explain the nature (or even the existence of) "musical consciousness" a compelling quest. The papers in this book tackle these problems in an engaging way, ranging from sociology of music to drug altered music cognition. Some also apply enactive and ecological approaches to music cognition, which makes the book an interesting read for constructivists.
892	enactive	2012	Lavelle, JS	Two Challenges to Hutto's Enactive Account of Pre-linguistic Social Cognition	PHILOSOPHIA	Daniel Hutto's Enactive account of social cognition maintains that pre- and non-linguistic interactions do not require that the participants represent the psychological states of the other. This goes against traditional 'cognitivist' accounts of these social phenomena. This essay examines Hutto's Enactive account, and proposes two challenges. The account maintains that organisms respond to the behaviours of others, and in doing so respond to the 'intentional attitude' which the other has. The first challenge argues that there is no adequate account of how the organisms respond to the correct aspect of the behaviour in each situation. The second challenge argues that the Enactive account cannot account for the flexibility of pre- and non-linguistic responses to others. The essay concludes that these challenges provide more than sufficient reason to doubt the viability of Hutto's account as an alternative to cogntivist approaches to social cognition.
893	enactive	2011	Magalhaes, R	Re-interpreting Organization Design in the Light of Enacted Cognition Theory	SYSTEMS RESEARCH AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE	This paper discusses how the concept of organization design can be made more relevant if treated as a process of social cognition. It is argued that Varela's enactive cognition approach throws new light on organization design given the way it views the relationship between the system and its environment. In highlighting that any cognitive entity develops its own internal perspective and that it is that perspective which mediates the relationship between the system and its environment, the notion of environmental contingency loses much of its sense. Using this approach as the main intellectual backdrop, as well as the principles behind the social construction of organization, a new systemic model of organization design is put forward. It features a cycle of four key organizational elements (strategic choice, domains of interaction, identity formation and shared meanings) shaped by two types of design rules (procedural/generative and practice based). These elements are interpreted in terms of the key features of enactivism (embodiment, sensemaking, experience, emergence and autonomy) and discussed in the light of extant literature on organization design. Copyright (C) 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
894	enactive	2011	Protevi, J; Wheeler, M	Essentially Embodied, Emotive, Enactive Social Cognition	EMBODIMENT, EMOTION, AND COGNITION	0
895	enactive	2011	Vernon, D	Reconciling Autonomy with Utility: A Roadmap and Architecture for Cognitive Development	BIOLOGICALLY INSPIRED COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURES 2011	This paper focusses on a general issue which arises when one attempts to design a cognitive architecture for autonomous cognitive systems: the incompatibility of autonomy with external control and the consequent problem of getting these systems to perform prescribed tasks. In addressing this issue, we consider a specific endeavour to design and implement a biologically-inspired cognitive architecture for the iCub humanoid robot. This architecture is based on 43 guidelines arising from an extended study of the requirements imposed by developmental psychology, neuroscience, enactive cognition, and existing computational models.
896	enactive	2010	Cain, P	Drawing The Enactive Evolution of the Practitioner Introduction	DRAWING: THE ENACTIVE EVOLUTION OF THE PRACTITIONER	0
897	enactive	2010	Cain, P	The Relevance of Enactive Cognition to the Practice of Drawing	DRAWING: THE ENACTIVE EVOLUTION OF THE PRACTITIONER	0
898	enactive	2010	Kiverstein, J	Consciousness and the feeling body	PRAGMATICS & COGNITION	In How the Mind Uses the Brain Ralph Ellis and Natika Newton develop a novel embodied, enactive theory of consciousness, according to which consciousness has its basis in neural systems that prepare the system to perform actions of emotional significance to the organism. Consciousness emerges out of self-organising processes which function in such a way as to contribute to, and maintain, the organism's overall wellbeing. I'll begin this review by reconstructing Ellis and Newton's view of consciousness as a self-organising process, and then go on to compare and contrast the enactive theory with the model of consciousness Chris Frith has outlined in his lectures.
899	enactive	2009	Keijzer, F	Trends in Embodied Cognition. Tensions Concerning Biology and Conscious Experience	TIJDSCHRIFT VOOR FILOSOFIE	Embodied cognition has come of age and is now diversifying. In this paper, I discuss four different approaches within embodied cognition: a biogenic approach, an enactive approach, a sensorimotor approach and a scaffolding approach. The four approaches can be differentiated according to their commitments to either biology (biogenic and enactive approaches) and/or experience (enactive and sensorimotor approaches). I will argue that these differences are substantial, but that a reconciliation is possible and even desirable. Seen in this light, embodied cognition can remain a comparatively unified field, these diverging approaches notwithstanding.
900	enactive	2009	Knyazeva, H	Nonlinear Cobweb of Cognition	FOUNDATIONS OF SCIENCE	The modern conception of enactive cognition is under discussion from the standpoint concerning the notions of nonlinear dynamics and synergetics. The contribution of Francisco Varela and his precursors is considered. It is shown that the perceptual and mental processes are bound up with the "architecture" of human body and nonlinear and circular connecting links between the subject of cognition and the world constructed by him can be metaphorically called a nonlinear cobweb of cognition. Cognition is an autopoietic activity because it is directed to the search of elements that are missed; it serves to completing integral structures.
901	symbolic	2012	Shi, SY; Tang, ZJ; Ma, QF; Wang, JY	Human Behavior Representation Theory Progress in Constructive Simulation	SYSTEM SIMULATION AND SCIENTIFIC COMPUTING, PT II	There are higher requirements for human behavior representation (HBR) in constructive simulation. After analyzing the military domain requirements and theory requirements of individual and organization behavior modeling, the basic theory progress of HBR were discussed including motivation theory, behavior decision-making theory, four main cognition schools and four typical cognition structures-SOAR, ACT-R, EPIC and 4CAPS. Their advantages and limitations were indicated. Then, the state of the art of HBR was summarized including the contribution and deficiency of former research. Some recommendations to HBR researchers are listed in the end.
902	symbolic	2011	Russwinkel, N; Urbas, L; Thuring, M	Predicting temporal errors in complex task environments: A computational and experimental approach	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Management in complex environments requires knowledge about temporal contingencies. Expectations about durations enable us to prepare for important events in good time, but also to detect irregularities. Unfortunately, time perception is not invariant. Situational aspects as well as features of the task at hand may dramatically change our sense of time. Particularly under varying workload conditions, temporal distortions may lead to performance errors. A valid and reliable model of time perception must account for these characteristics. Based on the cognitive architecture ACT-R (Anderson et al., 2004), we developed a computational model in line with this requirement. Specific emphasis was placed on mechanisms of coordinative working memory which seem to influence time encoding and perception. The model's assumptions were tested in three steps. First, the model was applied to account for time distortions 'a posteriori'. Effects of varying working memory demands reported by Dutke (2005) were replicated and explained by simulations of the model. Second, the model was used for predicting effects 'a priori'. Augmenting Dutke's (2005) approach by switching between different degrees of memory demands, predictions of time distortions were derived from the model. These predictions were compared with experimental data. Central assumptions of the model were supported, but there were also some deviations that the model had not captured. Based on the conclusions from the results of the experiment, a second a priori testing addressed temporal expectations in a complex task using a micro-world scenario. The results support the interpretation of the previous experiment and provide new insights for modelling time perception. In summary, our results indicate that coordinative working memory - in contrast to general attention - causes differences in timing performance. This characteristic is captured by our approach. The model we propose heavily relies on mechanisms of working memory and can be applied to explain effects for different time intervals, under a variety of experimental conditions and in different task environments. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
903	symbolic	2010	Dillard-Eggers, J; Roberts, ML	AN EFFICIENT METHOD FOR ACQUIRING AUDITING PROCEDURAL KNOWLEDGE	ADVANCES IN ACCOUNTING BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH, VOL 13	In light of advances in the theory of cognition (Anderson, 1996, 2000; Anderson & Fincham, 1994; Anderson & Lebiere, 1998) and research on learning from worked examples (Atkinson et al., 2000; Cooper & Sweller, 1987; Sweller & Cooper, 1985), this study extends earlier research findings that auditors need practice and certain kinds of feedback to acquire procedural knowledge to identify causes of variations between expected and actual financial ratios. We test an alternative form of instruction: worked examples. As predicted by Anderson's ACT-R 4.0 theory, the results indicate individuals pre-test declarative knowledge interacts significantly with learning method (with or without examples) on procedural knowledge acquisition. In contrast to prior findings, this study shows that improvements in auditing procedural knowledge can be achieved by passive instruction in worked examples, a potentially more efficient (cost-effective) method than practice and feedback for auditor training.
904	symbolic	2010	Golovine, JC; McCall, J; Holt, PO	Evolving Interface Designs to Minimize User Task Times as Simulated in a Cognitive Architecture	2010 IEEE CONGRESS ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION (CEC)	We present a novel approach to User Interface optimization. A Genetic Algorithm is used to evolve an interface layout to minimize user task times. Solutions are evaluated using the cognitive architecture - Active Control of Thought - Rational (ACT-R) to simulate the human cognition and motor action required to complete the task. A development environment, TOISE, has been created to integrate the GALib toolkit with user task definition and ACT-R. Our approach is tested on a classic design problem - the telephone keypad - in comparison with a Local Search. Solutions produced are also compared to the classic Bell telephone keypad. Our results show that both GA and LS evolve competitive solutions to the problem, with GA significantly outperforming LS. One of the solutions produced by GA approximates the classic Bell keypad. We conclude that the combination of EC and cognitive modeling may offer a competitive and cost effective alternative to interface design approaches driven by human evaluation.
905	symbolic	2008	Kase, SE; Ritter, FE; Schoelles, M	Using HPC and PGAs to Optimize Noisy Computational Models of Cognition	INNOVATIONS AND ADVANCED TECHNIQUES IN SYSTEMS, COMPUTING SCIENCES AND SOFTWARE ENGINEERING	Cognitive modeling on high performance computing platforms is an emerging field. A preliminary analysis is presented on the use of parallel processing anti genetic algorithms for optimizing the fit of non-linear, multivariable symbolic models of human cognition to experimental data. The effectiveness of this experimental optimization methodology is illustrated with a prototype model of a serial arithmetic task built in the ACT-R cognitive architecture. The results confirm that HPC-based optimization techniques could replace the manual optimization techniques used by cognitive modelers tip until the present.
906	symbolic	2007	Winkelholz, C; Schlick, CM	Modeling human spatial memory within a symbolic architecture of cognition	SPATIAL COGNITION V: REASONING, ACTION, INTERACTION	This paper presents a study on the integration of spatial cognition into a symbolic theory. The concepts of encoding object-locations in local allocentric reference systems and noisy representations of locations have been integrated into the ACT-R architecture of cognition. The intrinsic reference axis of the local reference. systems automatically result from the sequence of attended locations. The first part of the paper describes experiments we performed to test hypotheses on the usage of local allocentric reference systems in the context of object-location memory in graphical layout structures. The second part describes in more detail the theory and its integration into ACT-R. Based on the theory a model has been developed for the task in the experiments. The parameters for the noise in the representation of locations and the parameters for the recall of symbolic memory chunks were set to values in the magnitude quoted in literature. The model satisfyingly reproduces the data from user studies with 30 subjects.
907	symbolic	2004	Konieczny, L; Schimke, S; Hemforth, B	An activation-based model of agreement errors in production and comprehension	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	With this paper, we introduce the agreement production error (APE) model. APE is a model of comprehension and production performance that applies a theory of memory and cognition (ACT-R 5.0) to the task of linguistic processing embedded in a variety of psycholinguistic experimental paradigms. With its roots in the ACT-R theory, agreement errors are modeled as a combination of symbolic processing and chunk activation dynamics. Whether a plural or a singular verb is produced depends on the accessibility of the Subject's plural marking. The activation of plural-marking chunks decays, so that it might not be found when its retrieval is attempted at the verb, resulting in a general singular error (Hemforth and Konieczny, 2003). This effect is then modulated by task and construction specific variations.
908	symbolic	2004	0	ACT-R as a Unified Architecture of Cognition: A Symposium in Honor of John R. Anderson	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	0
909	symbolic	2003	Verschure, PFMJ	Real-world behavior as a constraint on the cognitive architecture: Comparing ACT-R and DAC in the Newell Test	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The Newell Test is an important step in advancing our understanding of cognition. One critical constraint is missing from this test: A cognitive architecture must be self-contained. ACT-R and connectionisin fail on this account. I present an alternative proposal, called Distributed Adaptive Control (DAC), and expose it to the Newell Test with the goal of achieving a clearer specification of the different constraints and their relationships, as proposed by Anderson Leblere (AL).
910	symbolic	1999	Lebiere, C; Wallach, D	Implicit and explicit learning in a hybrid architecture of cognition	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	We present a theoretical account of implicit and explicit learning in terms of ACT-R,an integrated architecture of human cognition as a computational supplement to Dienes & Perner's conceptual analysis of knowledge. Explicit learning is explained in ACT-R by the acquisition of new symbolic knowledge, whereas implicit learning amounts to statistically adjusting subsymbolic quantities associated with that knowledge. We discuss the common foundation of a set of models that are able to explain data gathered in several signature paradigms of implicit learning.
911	symbolic	1999	Fiedler, A	Using a cognitive architecture to plan dialogs for the adaptive explanation of proofs	IJCAI-99: PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTEENTH INTERNATIONAL JOINT CONFERENCE ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, VOLS 1 & 2	In order to generate high quality explanations in technical or mathematical domains, the presentation must be adapted to the knowledge of the intended audience. Current proof presentation systems only communicate proofs on a fixed degree of abstraction independently of the addressee's knowledge. In this paper we propose an architecture for an interactive proof explanation system, called P. rex. Based on the theory of human cognition ACT-R, its dialog planner exploits a cognitive model, in which both the user's knowledge and his cognitive processes are modeled. By this means, his cognitive states are traced during the explanation. The explicit representation of the user's cognitive states in ACT-R allows the dialog planner to choose a degree of abstraction tailored to the user for each proof step to be explained. Moreover, the system can revise its assumptions about the user's knowledge and react to his interactions.
912	symbolic	1998	Murdock, JW; Simina, M; Davies, J; Shippey, G	Modeling invention by analogy in ACT-R	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTIETH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	We investigate some aspects of cognition involved in invention, more precisely in the invention of the telephone by Alexander Graham Bell. We propose the use of the Structure-Behavior-Function (SBF) language for the representation of invention knowledge; we claim that because SBF has been shown to support a wide range of reasoning about physical devices, it constitutes a plausible account of how an inventor might represent knowledge of an invention. We further propose the use of the ACT-R architecture for the implementation of this model. ACT-R has been shown to very precisely model a wide range of human cognition. We draw upon the architecture for execution of productions and matching of declarative knowledge through spreading activation. Thus we present a model which combines the well-established cognitive validity of ACT-R with the powerful, specialized model-based reasoning methods facilitated by SBF.
913	symbolic	1998	Taatgen, NA	Explicit learning in Act-R	MIND MODELLING: A COGNITIVE SCIENCE APPROACH TO REASONING, LEARNING AND DISCOVERY	A popular distinction in the learning literature is the distinction between implicit and explicit learning. Although many studies elaborate on the nature of implicit learning, little attention is left for explicit learning. The unintentional aspect of implicit learning corresponds well to the mechanistic view of learning employed in architectures of cognition. But how to account for deliberate, intentional, explicit learning? This chapter argues that explicit learning can be explained by strategies that exploit implicit learning mechanisms. This idea is explored and modelled using the ACT-R theory (Anderson, 1993). An explicit strategy for learning facts in ACT-R's declarative memory is rehearsal, a strategy that uses ACT-R's activation learning mechanisms to gain deliberate control over what is learned. In the same sense, strategies for explicit procedural learning are proposed. Procedural learning in ACT-R involves generalisation of examples. Explicit learning rules can create and manipulate these examples. An example of these explicit rules will be discussed. These rules are general enough to be able to model the learning of three different tasks. Furthermore, the last of these models can explain the difference between adults and children in the discrimination-shift task.
914	symbolic	1998	Beiser, DG; Houk, JC	Model of cortical-basal ganglionic processing: Encoding the serial order of sensory events	JOURNAL OF NEUROPHYSIOLOGY	Several lines of evidence suggest that the prefrontal(PF) cortex and basal ganglia are important in cognitive aspects of serial order in behavior. We present a modular neural network model of these areas that encodes the serial order of events into spatial patterns of PF activity. The model is based on the topographically specific circuits linking the PF with the basal ganglia. Each module traces a pathway from the PF, through the basal ganglia and thalamus, and back to the PF. The complete model consists of an array of modules interacting through recurrent corticostriatal projections and collateral inhibition between striatal spiny units. The model's architecture positions spiny units for the classification of cortical contexts and events and provides bistable cortical-thalamic loops for sustaining a representation of these contextual events in working memory activations. The model was tested with a simulated version of a delayed-sequencing task. In single-unit studies, the task begins with the presentation of a sequence of target lights. After a short delay, the monkey must touch the targets in the order in which they were presented. When instantiated with randomly distributed corticostriatal weights, the model produces different patterns of PF activation in response to different target sequences. These patterns represent an unambiguous and spatially distributed encoding of the sequence. Parameter studies of these random networks were used to compare the computational consequences of collateral and feed-forward inhibition within the striatum. In addition, we studied the receptive fields of 20,640 model units and uncovered an interesting set of cue-, rank- and sequence-related responses that qualitatively resemble responses reported in single unit studies of the PF. The majority of units respond to more than one sequence of stimuli. A method for analyzing serial receptive fields is presented and utilized for comparing the model units to single-unit data.
915	symbolic	1991	BRITTON, BK; GULGOZ, S	USING KINTSCH COMPUTATIONAL MODEL TO IMPROVE INSTRUCTIONAL TEXT - EFFECTS OF REPAIRING INFERENCE CALLS ON RECALL AND COGNITIVE STRUCTURES	JOURNAL OF EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY	0
916	symbolic	1995	PLAUT, DC	DOUBLE DISSOCIATION WITHOUT MODULARITY - EVIDENCE FROM CONNECTIONIST NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	JOURNAL OF CLINICAL AND EXPERIMENTAL NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	Many theorists assume that the cognitive system is composed of a collection of encapsulated processing components or modules, each dedicated to performing a particular cognitive function. On this view, selective impairments of cognitive tasks following brain damage, as evidenced by double dissociations, are naturally interpreted in terms of the loss of particular processing components. By contrast, the current investigation examines in detail a double dissociation between concrete and abstract word reading after damage to a connectionist network that pronounces words via meaning and yet has no separable components (Plaut and Shallice, 1993). The functional specialization in the network that gives rise to the double dissociation is not transparently related to the network's structure, as modular theories assume. Furthermore, a consideration of the distribution of effects across quantitatively equivalent individual lesions in the network raises specific concerns about the interpretation of single-case studies. The findings underscore the necessity of relating neuropsychological data to cognitive theories in the context of specific computational assumptions about how the cognitive system operates normally and after damage.
917	symbolic	2007	Hazy, TE; Frank, MJ; O'Reilly, RC	Towards an executive without a homunculus: computational models of the prefrontal cortex/basal ganglia system	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The prefrontal cortex (PFC) has long been thought to serve as an 'executive' that controls the selection of actions and cognitive functions more generally. However, the mechanistic basis of this executive function has not been clearly specified often amounting to a homunculus. This paper reviews recent attempts to deconstruct this homunculus by elucidating the precise computational and neural mechanisms underlying the executive functions of the PFC. The overall approach builds upon existing mechanistic models of the basal ganglia (BG) and frontal systems known to play a critical role in motor control and action selection, where the BG provide a 'Go' versus 'NoGo' modulation of frontal action representations. In our model, the BG modulate working memory representations in prefrontal areas to support more abstract executive functions. We have developed a computational model of this system that is capable of developing human-like performance on working memory and executive control tasks through trial-and-error learning. This learning is based on reinforcement learning mechanisms associated with the midbrain dopaminergic system and its activation via the BG and amygdala. Finally, we briefly describe various empirical tests of this framework.
918	symbolic	2003	Steels, L	Evolving grounded communication for robots	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The computational and robotic synthesis of language evolution is emerging as a new exciting field of research. The objective is to come up with precise operational models of how communities of agents, equipped with a cognitive apparatus, a sensori-motor system, and a body, can arrive at shared grounded communication systems. Such systems may have similar characteristics to animal communication or human language. Apart from its technological interest in building novel applications in the domain of human-robot or robot-robot interaction, this research is of interest to the many disciplines concerned with the origins and evolution of language and communication.
919	symbolic	2008	Kemp, C; Tenenbaum, JB	The discovery of structural form	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Algorithms for finding structure in data have become increasingly important both as tools for scientific data analysis and as models of human learning, yet they suffer from a critical limitation. Scientists discover qualitatively new forms of structure in observed data: For instance, Linnaeus recognized the hierarchical organization of biological species, and Mendeleev recognized the periodic structure of the chemical elements. Analogous insights play a pivotal role in cognitive development: Children discover that object category labels can be organized into hierarchies, friendship networks are organized into cliques, and comparative relations (e.g., "bigger than" or "better than") respect a transitive order. Standard algorithms, however, can only learn structures of a single form that must be specified in advance: For instance, algorithms for hierarchical clustering create tree structures, whereas algorithms for dimensionality-reduction create low-dimensional spaces. Here, we present a computational model that learns structures of many different forms and that discovers which form is best for a given dataset. The model makes probabilistic inferences over a space of graph grammars representing trees, linear orders, multidimensional spaces, rings, dominance hierarchies, cliques, and other forms and successfully discovers the underlying structure of a variety of physical, biological, and social domains. Our approach brings structure learning methods closer to human abilities and may lead to a deeper computational understanding of cognitive development.
920	symbolic	2005	Wearne, SL; Rodriguez, A; Ehlenberger, DB; Rocher, AB; Henderson, SC; Hof, PR	New techniques for imaging, digitization and analysis of three-dimensional neural morphology on multiple scales	NEUROSCIENCE	Cognitive impairment in normal aging and neurodegenerative diseases is accompanied by altered morphologies on multiple scales. Understanding of the role of these structural changes in producing functional deficits in brain aging and neuropsychiatric disorders requires accurate three-dimensional representations of neuronal morphology, and realistic biophysical modeling that can directly relate structural changes to altered neuronal firing patterns. To date however, tools capable of resolving, digitizing and analyzing neuronal morphology on both local and global scales, and with sufficient throughput and automation, have been lacking. The precision of existing image analysis-based morphometric tools is restricted at the finest scales, where resolution of fine dendritic features and spine geometry is limited by the skeletonization methods used, and by quantization errors arising from insufficient imaging resolution. We are developing techniques for imaging, reconstruction and analysis of neuronal morphology that capture both local and global structural variation. To minimize quantization error and evaluate more precisely the fine geometry of dendrites and spines, we introduce a new shape analysis technique, the Rayburst sampling algorithm that uses the original grayscale data rather than the segmented images for precise, continuous radius estimation, and multidirectional radius sampling to represent non-circular branch cross-sections and anisotropic structures such as dendritic spine heads, with greater accuracy. We apply the Rayburst technique to 3D neuronal shape analysis at different scales. We reconstruct and digitize entire neurons from stacks of laser-scanning microscopy images, as well as globally complex structures such as multineuron networks and microvascular networks. We also introduce imaging techniques necessary to recover detailed information on three-dimensional mass distribution and surface roughness of amyloid beta plaques from human Alzheimer's disease patients and from the Tg2576 mouse that expresses the '' Swedish '' mutation of the amyloid precursor protein. By providing true three-dimensional morphometry of complex histologic structures on multiple scales, the tools described in this report will enable multiscale biophysical modeling studies capable of testing potential mechanisms by which altered dendritic structure, spine geometry and network branching patterns that occur in normal aging and in many brain disorders, determine deficits of functions such as working memory and cognition. (c) 2005 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
921	symbolic	2007	Vernon, D; Metta, G; Sandini, G	A survey of artificial cognitive systems: Implications for the autonomous development of mental capabilities in computational agents	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION	This survey presents an overview of the autonomous development of mental capabilities in computational agents. It does so based on a characterization of cognitive systems as systems which exhibit adaptive, anticipatory, and purposive goal-directed behavior. We present a broad survey of the various paradigms of cognition, addressing cognitivist (physical symbol systems) approaches, emergent systems approaches, encompassing connectionist, dynamical, and enactive systems, and also efforts to combine the two in hybrid systems. We then review several cognitive architectures drawn from these paradigms. In each of these areas, we highlight the implications and attendant problems of adopting a developmental approach, both from phylogenetic and ontogenetic points of view. We conclude with a summary of the key architectural features that systems capable of autonomous development of mental capabilities should exhibit.
922	symbolic	2008	Salvucci, DD; Taatgen, NA	Threaded cognition: An integrated theory of concurrent multitasking	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The authors propose the idea of threaded cognition, an integrated theory of concurrent multitasking-that is, performing 2 or more tasks at once. Threaded cognition posits that streams of thought can be represented as threads of processing coordinated by a serial procedural resource and executed across other available resources (e.g., perceptual and motor resources). The theory specifies a parsimonious mechanism that allows for concurrent execution, resource acquisition, and resolution of resource conflicts, without the need for specialized executive processes. By instantiating this mechanism as a computational model, threaded cognition provides explicit predictions of how multitasking behavior can result in interference, or lack thereof, for a given set of tasks. The authors illustrate the theory in model simulations of several representative domains ranging from simple laboratory tasks such as dual-choice tasks to complex real-world domains such as driving and driver distraction.
923	symbolic	2008	Egner, T	Multiple conflict-driven control mechanisms in the human brain	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Conflict between competing neural representations is thought to serve as an internal signal for the recruitment of 'cognitive control', which resolves conflict by biasing information processing in line with current task demands. Because conflict can occur at different levels of stimulus and response representations, several recent investigations have examined whether conflict-driven cognitive control is domain-general or domain-specific, that is, whether control recruited by one type of conflict affects the resolution of another, but these studies have produced contrary conclusions. I argue here that a critical reading of this literature indicates that the effects of conflict-driven control are domain-specific and are probably mediated by multiple, independent conflict-control loops that can operate in parallel.
924	symbolic	2009	Botvinick, MM; Niv, Y; Barto, AC	Hierarchically organized behavior and its neural foundations: A reinforcement learning perspective	COGNITION	Research on human and animal behavior has long emphasized its hierarchical structure the divisibility of ongoing behavior into discrete tasks, which are comprised of subtask sequences, which in turn are built of simple actions. The hierarchical structure of behavior has also been of enduring interest within neuroscience, where it has been widely considered to reflect prefrontal cortical functions. In this paper, we reexamine behavioral hierarchy and its neural substrates from the point of view of recent developments in computational reinforcement learning. Specifically, we consider a set of approaches known collectively as hierarchical reinforcement learning, which extend the reinforcement learning paradigm by allowing the learning agent to aggregate actions into reusable subroutines or skills. A close took at the components of hierarchical reinforcement learning suggests how they might map onto neural structures, in particular regions within the dorsolateral and orbital prefrontal cortex. It also suggests specific ways in which hierarchical reinforcement learning might provide a complement to existing psychological models of hierarchically structured behavior. A particularly important question that hierarchical reinforcement learning brings to the fore is that of how learning identifies new action routines that are likely to provide useful building blocks in solving a wide range of future problems. Here and at many other points. hierarchical reinforcement learning offers an appealing framework for investigating the computational and neural underpinnings of hierarchically structured behavior. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
925	symbolic	2009	Asada, M; Hosoda, K; Kuniyoshi, Y; Ishiguro, H; Inui, T; Yoshikawa, Y; Ogino, M; Yoshida, C	Cognitive Developmental Robotics: A Survey	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTONOMOUS MENTAL DEVELOPMENT	Cognitive developmental robotics (CDR) aims to provide new understanding of how human's higher cognitive functions develop by means of a synthetic approach that developmentally constructs cognitive functions. The core idea of CDR is "physical embodiment" that enables information structuring through interactions with the environment, including other agents. The idea is shaped based on the hypothesized development model of human cognitive functions from body representation to social behavior. Along with the model, studies of CDR and related works are introduced, and discussion on the model and future issues are argued.
926	symbolic	2007	Kveraga, K; Ghuman, AS; Bar, M	Top-down predictions in the cognitive brain	BRAIN AND COGNITION	The human brain is not a passive organ simply waiting to be activated by external stimuli. Instead, we propose that the brain continuously employs memory of past experiences to interpret sensory information and predict the immediately relevant future. The basic elements of this proposal include analogical mapping, associative representations and the generation of predictions. This review concentrates on visual recognition as the model system for developing and testing ideas about the role and mechanisms of top-down predictions in the brain. We cover relevant behavioral, computational and neural aspects, explore links to emotion and action preparation, and consider clinical implications for schizophrenia and dyslexia. We then discuss the extension of the general principles of this proposal to other cognitive domains. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
927	symbolic	1999	Horwitz, B; Tagamets, MA; McIntosh, AR	Neural modeling, functional brain imaging, and cognition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The richness and complexity of data sets acquired from PET or fMRI studies of human cognition have not been exploited until recently by computational neuronal modeling methods. In this article, two neural-modeling approaches for use with functional brain imaging data are described. One, which uses structural equation modeling, estimates the functional strengths of the anatomical connections between various brain regions during specific cognitive tasks. The second employs large-scale neural modeling to relate functional neuroimaging signals in multiple, interconnected brain regions to the underlying neurobiological time-varying activities in each region. Delayed match-to-sample (visual working memory for form) tasks are used to illustrate these models.
928	symbolic	1998	Lawrence, AD; Sahakian, BJ; Robbins, TW	Cognitive functions and corticostriatal circuits: insights from Huntington's disease	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The basic Bade basic mechanisms of information processing by corticostriatal circuits are currently a matter of intense debate amongst cognitive scientists. Huntington's disease, an autosomal-dominant neurogenetic disorder characterized clinically by a triad of motor, cognitive, and affective disturbance, is associated with neuronal loss within corticostriatal circuits, and as such provides a valuable model for understanding the role of these circuits in normal behaviour, and their disruption in disease. We review findings from our studies of the breakdown of cognition in Huntington's disease, with particular emphasis on executive functions and visual recognition memory. We show that Huntington's disease patients exhibit a neuropsychological profile that shows a discernible pattern of progression with advancing disease, and appears to result from a in the mechanisms of response selection. These findings are consistent with computational models that suggest that corticostriatal circuits compute the patterns of sensory input and response output which are of behavioural significance a particular environmental context.
929	symbolic	2007	Cohen, MX; Ranganath, C	Reinforcement learning signals predict future decisions	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Optimal behavior in a competitive world requires the flexibility to adapt decision strategies based on recent outcomes. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that this flexibility emerges through a reinforcement learning process, in which reward prediction errors are used dynamically to adjust representations of decision options. We recorded event-related brain potentials (ERPs) while subjects played a strategic economic game against a computer opponent to evaluate how neural responses to outcomes related to subsequent decision-making. Analyses of ERP data focused on the feedback-related negativity (FRN), an outcome-locked potential thought to reflect a neural prediction error signal. Consistent with predictions of a computational reinforcement learning model, we found that the magnitude of ERPs after losing to the computer opponent predicted whether subjects would change decision behavior on the subsequent trial. Furthermore, FRNs to decision outcomes were disproportionately larger over the motor cortex contralateral to the response hand that was used to make the decision. These findings provide novel evidence that humans engage a reinforcement learning process to adjust representations of competing decision options.
930	symbolic	2000	El-Nasr, MS; Yen, J; Ioerger, TR	FLAME - Fuzzy logic adaptive model of emotions	AUTONOMOUS AGENTS AND MULTI-AGENT SYSTEMS	Emotions are an important aspect of human intelligence and have been shown to play a significant role in the human decision-making process. Researchers in areas such as cognitive science, philosophy, and artificial intelligence have proposed a variety of models of emotions. Most of the previous models focus on an agent's reactive behavior, for which they often generate emotions according to static rules or pre-determined domain knowledge. However, throughout the history of research on emotions, memory and experience have been emphasized to have a major influence on the emotional process. In this paper, we propose a new computational model of emotions that can be incorporated into intelligent agents and other complex, interactive programs. The model uses a fuzzy-logic representation to map events and observations to emotional states. The model also includes several inductive learning algorithms for learning patterns of events, associations among objects, and expectations. We demonstrate empirically through a computer simulation of a pet that the adaptive components of the model are crucial to users' assessments of the believability of the agent's interactions.
931	symbolic	2008	Verguts, T; Notebaert, W	Hebbian learning of cognitive control: Dealing with specific and nonspecific adaptation	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The conflict monitoring model of M. M. Botvinick, T. S. Braver, D. M. Barch, C. S. Carter, and J. D. Cohen (2001) triggered several research programs investigating various aspects of cognitive control. One problematic aspect of the Botvinick et al. model is that there is no clear account of how the cognitive system knows where to intervene when conflict is detected. As a result, recent findings of task-specific and context-specific (e.g., item-specific) adaptation are difficult to interpret. The difficulty with item-specific adaptation was recently pointed out by C. Blais, S. Robidoux, E. F. Risko, and D. Besner (2007), who proposed an alternative model that could account for this. However, the same problem of where the cognitive system should intervene resurfaces in a different shape in this model, and it has difficulty in accounting for the Gratton effect, a hallmark item-nonspecific effect. The authors of the current article show how these problems can be solved when cognitive control is implemented as a conflict-modulated Hebbian learning rule.
932	symbolic	2005	Deco, G; Rolls, ET	Attention, short-term memory, and action selection: A unifying theory	PROGRESS IN NEUROBIOLOGY	Cognitive behaviour requires complex context-dependent processing of information that emerges from the links between attentional perceptual processes, working memory and reward-based evaluation of the performed actions. We describe a computational neuroscience theoretical framework which shows how an attentional state held in a short term memory in the prefrontal cortex can by top-down processing influence ventral and dorsal stream cortical areas using biased competition to account for many aspects of visual attention. We also show how within the prefrontal cortex an attentional bias can influence the mapping of sensory inputs to motor outputs, and thus play an important role in decision making. We also show how the absence of expected rewards can switch an attentional bias signal, and thus rapidly and flexibly alter cognitive performance. This theoretical framework incorporates spiking and synaptic dynamics which enable single neuron responses, fMRI activations, psychophysical results, the effects of pharmacological agents, and the effects of damage to parts of the system to be explicitly simulated and predicted. This computational neuroscience framework provides an approach for integrating different levels of investigation of brain function, and for understanding the relations between them. The models also directly address how bottom-up and top-down processes interact in visual cognition, and show how some apparently serial processes reflect the operation of interacting parallel distributed systems. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
933	symbolic	2010	Yassa, MA; Stark, SM; Bakker, A; Albert, MS; Gallagher, M; Stark, CEL	High-resolution structural and functional MRI of hippocampal CA3 and dentate gyrus in patients with amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment	NEUROIMAGE	Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have observed hyperactivity in the hippocampal region in individuals with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). However, the actual source of such hyperactivity is not well understood. Studies of aged rats observed similar hyperactive signals in the CA3 region of the hippocampus that correlated with spatial memory deficits and, in particular, with their ability to represent novel environments as being distinct from familiar ones (pattern separation). In this study, we tested the hypothesis that patients with amnestic MCI (aMCI) have deficits in pattern separation, along with hyperactive fMRI BOLD activity in the CA3 region of the hippocampus. We used high-resolution fMRI during a continuous recognition task designed to emphasize pattern separation. We conducted hippocampal subfield-level region of interest analyses to test for dysfunctional activity in aMCI patients. We found that patients showed impaired performance on trials that taxed their pattern separation abilities. We also observed hyperactive BOLD signals in the CA3/dentate and hypoactive signals in the entorhinal cortex during the separation condition. In a high-resolution morphometric analysis of hippocampal subfields, aMCI patients also had smaller CA3/dentate and CM volumes (no difference in the subiculum). The CA3/dentate region bilaterally also exhibited the largest shape deformations in aMCI patients, suggesting that this locus is affected early in the course of the disease. These findings suggest that structural and functional changes in the CA3/dentate region of the hippocampus contribute to the deficits in episodic memory that are observed in patients with aMCI. The functional hyperactivity may be evidence for a dysfunctional encoding mechanism, consistent with the predictions of computational models of hippocampal learning. (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
934	symbolic	2009	Bentall, RP; Rowse, G; Shryane, N; Kinderman, P; Howard, R; Blackwood, N; Moore, R; Corcoran, R	The Cognitive and Affective Structure of Paranoid DelusionsA Transdiagnostic Investigation of Patients With Schizophrenia Spectrum Disorders and Depression	ARCHIVES OF GENERAL PSYCHIATRY	Context: Paranoid delusions are a common symptom of a range of psychotic disorders. A variety of psychological mechanisms have been implicated in their cause, including a tendency to jump to conclusions, an impairment in the ability to understand the mental states of other people (theory of mind), an abnormal anticipation of threat, and an abnormal explanatory style coupled with low self-esteem. Objective: To determine the structure of the relationships among psychological mechanisms contributing to paranoia in a transdiagnostic sample. Design: Cross-sectional design, with relationships between predictor variables and paranoia examined by structural equation models with latent variables. Setting: Publicly funded psychiatric services in London and the North West of England. Participants: One hundred seventy-three patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders, major depression, or late-onset schizophrenia-like psychosis, subdivided according to whether they were currently experiencing paranoid delusions. Sixty-four healthy control participants matched for appropriate demographic variables were included. Main Outcome Measures: Assessments of theory of mind, jumping to conclusions bias, and general intellectual functioning, with measures of threat anticipation, emotion, self-esteem, and explanatory style. Results: The best fitting (chi(2)(96) = 131.69, P = .01; comparative fit index = 0.95; Tucker-Lewis Index = 0.96; root-mean-square error of approximation = 0.04) and most parsimonious model of the data indicated that paranoid delusions are associated with a combination of pessimistic thinking style (low self-esteem, pessimistic explanatory style, and negative emotion) and impaired cognitive performance (executive functioning, tendency to jump to conclusions, and ability to reason about the mental states of others). Pessimistic thinking correlated highly with paranoia even when controlling for cognitive performance (r = 0.65, P < .001), and cognitive performance correlated with paranoia when controlling for pessimism (r = -0.34, P < .001). Conclusions: Both cognitive and emotion-related processes are involved in paranoid delusions. Treatment for paranoid patients should address both types of processes.
935	symbolic	2006	Salvucci, DD	Modeling driver behavior in a cognitive architecture	HUMAN FACTORS	Objective: This paper explores the development of a rigorous computational model of driver behavior in a cognitive architecture - a computational framework with underlying psychological theories that incorporate basic properties and limitations of the human system. Background: Computational modeling has emerged as a powerful tool for studying the complex task of driving, allowing researchers to simulate driver behavior and explore the parameters and constraints of this behavior. Method: An integrated driver model developed in the ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational) cognitive architecture is described that focuses on the component processes of control, monitoring, and decision making in a multilane highway environment. Results: This model accounts for the steering profiles, lateral position profiles, and gaze distributions of human drivers during lane keeping, curve negotiation, and lane changing. Conclusion: The model demonstrates how cognitive architectures facilitate understanding of driver behavior in the context of general human abilities and constraints and how the driving domain benefits cognitive architectures by pushing model development toward more complex, realistic tasks. Application: The model can also serve as a core computational engine for practical applications that predict and recognize driver behavior and distraction.
936	symbolic	1998	Miller, GF; Todd, PM	Mate choice turns cognitive	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Evolutionary psychology has revolutionized research on human mate choice and Sexual attraction in recent years, combining a rigorous Darwinian framework based On sexual selection theory with a loosely cognitivist orientation: to task analysis and mechanism modelling. This hard Darwinian, soft computational approach. has been most successful at revealing the adaptive logic behind physical beauty, demonstrating that many:sexual cues computed from face and body shape are not arbitrary, but function as reliable indicators of phenotypic and genetic quality. The same approach could be extended from physical to psychological cues if evolutionary psychology built stronger ties with personality psychology, psychometrics and behavioral genetics. A major challenge for mate choice research is to develop more explicit computational models at three levels, specifying: (1) the perceptual adaptations that register sexual cues given sensory: input, (2) the judgment adaptations that integrate multiple cues into assessments of overall attractiveness, and (3) the search strategies that people follow in trying:to form mutually attracted pairs. We describe both recent efforts and possible extensions in these directions. The resulting confluence between evolutionary principles cognitive models and game-theoretic insights can put mate choice research at the vanguard of an. emerging 'evolutionary cognitive science' more concerned With domain-specific mental, adaptations than with domain-general intelligence.
937	symbolic	1997	Burgess, C; Lund, K	Modelling parsing constraints with high-dimensional context space	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	Deriving representations of meaning has been a long-standing problem in cognitive psychology and psycholinguistics. The lack of a model for representing semantic and grammatical knowledge has been a handicap in attempting to model the effects of semantic constraints in human syntactic processing. A computational model of high-dimensional context space, the Hyperspace Analogue to Language (HAL), is presented with a series of simulations modelling a variety of human empirical results. HAL learns its representations from the unsupervised processing of 300 million words of conversational text. We propose that HAL's high-dimensional context space can be used to (1) provide a basic categorisation of semantic and grammatical concepts, (2) model certain aspects of morphological ambiguity in verbs, and (3) provide an account of semantic context effects in syntactic processing. We propose that the distributed and contextually derived representations that HAL acquires provide a basis for the subconceptual knowledge that can be used in accounting for a diverse set of cognitive phenomena.
938	symbolic	2009	Beckner, C; Ellis, NC; Blythe, R; Holland, J; Bybee, J; Ke, J; Christiansen, MH; Larsen-Freeman, D; Croft, W; Schoenemann, T	Language Is a Complex Adaptive System: Position Paper	LANGUAGE LEARNING	Language has a fundamentally social function. Processes of human interaction along with domain-general cognitive processes shape the structure and knowledge of language. Recent research in the cognitive sciences has demonstrated that patterns of use strongly affect how language is acquired, is used, and changes. These processes are not independent of one another but are facets of the same complex adaptive system (CAS). Language as a CAS involves the following key features: The system consists of multiple agents (the speakers in the speech community) interacting with one another. The system is adaptive; that is, speakers' behavior is based on their past interactions, and current and past interactions together feed forward into future behavior. A speaker's behavior is the consequence of competing factors ranging from perceptual constraints to social motivations. The structures of language emerge from interrelated patterns of experience, social interaction, and cognitive mechanisms. The CAS approach reveals commonalities in many areas of language research, including first and second language acquisition, historical linguistics, psycholinguistics, language evolution, and computational modeling.
939	symbolic	2006	Potts, GF; Martin, LE; Burton, P; Montague, PR	When things are better or worse than expected: The medial frontal cortex and the allocation of processing resources	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Access to limited-capacity neural systems of cognitive control must be restricted to the most relevant information. How the brain identifies and selects items for preferential processing is not fully understood. Anatomical models often place the selection mechanism in the medial frontal cortex (MFC), and one computational model proposes that the mesotelencephalic dopamine (DA) system, via its reward prediction properties, provides a "gate" through which information gains access to limited-capacity systems. There is a medial frontal event-related potential (ERP) index of attention selection, the anterior positivity (P2a), associated with DA reward system input to the MFC for the identification of task-relevant perceptual representations. The P2a has a similar spatio-temporal distribution as the medial frontal negativity (MFN), elicited to error responses or choices resulting in monetary loss. The MFN has also been linked to DA projections to the MFC but for action monitoring rather than attention selection. This study proposes that the P2a and the MFN reflect the same MFC evaluation function and use a passive reward prediction design containing neither instructed attention nor response to demonstrate that the ERP over medial frontal leads at the P2a/MFN latency is consistent with activity of midbrain DA neurons, positive to unpredicted rewards and negative when a predicted reward is withheld. This result suggests that MFC activity is regulated by DA reward system input and may function to identify items or actions that exceed or fail to meet motivational prediction.
940	symbolic	2009	Verguts, T; Notebaert, W	Adaptation by binding: a learning account of cognitive control	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Cognitive control refers to the ability to repress our instantaneous urges in favor of more appropriate responses. Current debate concerns whether cognitive control effects that are studied in the laboratory (e.g. Stroop tasks) actually reflect the operation of a cognitive control system (adaptation theory) or instead merely reflect side effects of feature binding processes (binding theory). The two perspectives can be integrated by conceptualizing cognitive control as resulting from interactions between binding processes (as instantiated in Hebbian learning) and arousal. Conflict situations such as Stroop incongruent-stimuli lead to arousal and noradrenalin release throughout the brain, which facilitates binding between task-relevant cortical areas. Our proposal emphasizes an intimate link between cognitive and emotional processing.
941	symbolic	2010	Yonelinas, AP; Aly, M; Wang, WC; Koen, JD	Recollection and Familiarity: Examining Controversial Assumptions and New Directions	HIPPOCAMPUS	It is well accepted that recognition memory reflects the contribution of two separable memory retrieval processes, namely recollection and familiarity. However, fundamental questions remain regarding the functional nature and neural substrates of these processes. In this article, we describe a simple quantitative model of recognition memory (i.e., the dual-process signal detection model) that has been useful in integrating findings from a broad range of cognitive studies, and that is now being applied in a growing number of neuroscientific investigations of memory. The model makes several strong assumptions about the behavioral nature and neural substrates of recollection and familiarity. A review of the literature indicates that these assumptions are generally well supported, but that there are clear boundary conditions in which these assumptions break down. We argue that these findings provide important insights into the operation of the processes underlying recognition. Finally, we consider how the dual-process approach relates to recent neuroanatomical and computational models and how it might be integrated with recent findings concerning the role of medial temporal lobe regions in other cognitive functions such as novelty detection, perception, implicit memory and short-term memory. (c) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
942	symbolic	2006	Yeung, N; Cohen, JD	The impact of cognitive deficits on conflict monitoring - Predictable dissociations between the error-related negativity and N2	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Monitoring of ongoing processing plays a critical role in regulating cognitive function. Two event-related potential components, the error-related negativity (ERN) and N2, have been proposed to reflect this monitoring function. Specifically, it has been suggested that both components reflect the role of anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) in monitoring for the occurrence of response conflict. This view appears to be challenged by findings that alcohol consumption and lesions in ACC have dissociable effects on the ERN and N2. Using a computational model, the present research demonstrates that the conflict-monitoring theory can account for these dissociations in terms of the dissociable effects of alcohol and ACC lesions on processing of relevant stimulus information (which determines ERN amplitude) and processing of irrelevant, distracting information (which determines N2 amplitude). The simulation results suggest new interpretations of the cognitive deficits caused by alcohol consumption (impaired stimulus processing) and ACC lesions (impaired attentional control).
943	symbolic	2010	Frith, U; Frith, C	The social brain: allowing humans to boldly go where no other species has been	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The biological basis of complex human social interaction and communication has been illuminated through a coming together of various methods and disciplines. Among these are comparative studies of other species, studies of disorders of social cognition and developmental psychology. The use of neuroimaging and computational models has given weight to speculations about the evolution of social behaviour and culture in human societies. We highlight some networks of the social brain relevant to two-person interactions and consider the social signals between interacting partners that activate these networks. We make a case for distinguishing between signals that automatically trigger interaction and cooperation and ostensive signals that are used deliberately. We suggest that this ostensive signalling is needed for 'closing the loop' in two-person interactions, where the partners each know that they have the intention to communicate. The use of deliberate social signals can serve to increase reputation and trust and facilitates teaching. This is likely to be a critical factor in the steep cultural ascent of mankind.
944	symbolic	2007	Apud, JA; Mattay, V; Chen, JS; Kolachana, BS; Callicott, JH; Rasetti, R; Alce, G; Iudicello, JE; Akbar, N; Egan, MF; Goldberg, TE; Weinberger, DR	Tolcapone improves cognition and cortical information processing in normal human subjects	NEUROPSYCHOPHARMACOLOGY	Prefrontal cortical dopamine (DA) regulates various executive cognitive functions, including attention and working memory. Efforts to enhance prefrontal-related cognition, which have focused on catecholaminergic stimulant drugs, have been unsatisfactory. Recently, the demonstration that a functional polymorphism in the catecholamine-O-methyltransferase ( COMT) gene impacts prefrontal cognition raises the possibility of a novel pharmacological approach for the treatment of prefrontal lobe executive dysfunction. To explore in a proof of concept study the effects of tolcapone, a CNS penetrant specific COMT inhibitor, we performed a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, and crossover design of this drug in normal subjects stratified by COMT (val158met) genotype. COMT enzyme activity was determined in peripheral blood. Forty-seven normal volunteers with no family history of psychiatric disorders underwent neuropsychological testing and 34 of those subjects underwent physiological measurement of prefrontal information processing assessed by blood oxygen level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI). We found significant drug effects on measures of executive function and verbal episodic memory and a significant drug by genotype interaction on the latter, such that individuals with val/val genotypes improved, whereas individuals with met/met genotypes worsened on tolcapone. fMRI revealed a significant tolcapone-induced improvement in the efficiency of information processing in prefrontal cortex during a working memory test. This study demonstrates enhancement of prefrontal cortical function in normal human subjects with a nonstimulant drug having COMT inhibitory activity. Our results are consistent with data from animal studies and from computational models of the effects of selective enhancement of DA signaling in the prefrontal cortex.
945	symbolic	2002	Large, EW; Palmer, C	Perceiving temporal regularity in music	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We address how listeners perceive temporal regularity in music performances, which are rich in temporal irregularities. A computational model is described in which a small system of internal self-sustained oscillations, operating at different periods with specific phase and period relations, entrains to the rhythms of music performances. Based on temporal expectancies embodied by the oscillations, the model predicts the categorization of temporally changing event intervals into discrete metrical categories, as well as the perceptual salience of deviations from these categories. The model's predictions are tested in two experiments using piano performances of the same music with different phrase structure interpretations (Experiment 1) or different melodic interpretations (Experiment 2). The model successfully tracked temporal regularity amidst the temporal fluctuations found in the performances. The model's sensitivity to performed deviations from its temporal expectations compared favorably with the per-formers' structural (phrasal and melodic) intentions. Furthermore, the model tracked normal performances (with increased temporal variability) better than performances in which temporal fluctuations associated with individual voices were removed (with decreased variability). The small, systematic temporal irregularities characteristic of human performances (chord asynchronies) improved tracking, but randomly generated temporal irregularities did not. These findings suggest that perception of temporal regularity in complex musical sequences is based on temporal expectancies that adapt in response to temporally fluctuating input. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
946	symbolic	2001	Salinas, E; Sejnowski, TJ	Gain modulation in the central nervous system: Where behavior, neurophysiology, and computation meet	NEUROSCIENTIST	Gain modulation is a nonlinear way in which neurons combine information from two (or more) sources, which may be of sensory, motor, or cognitive origin. Gain modulation is revealed when one input, the modulatory one, affects the gain or the sensitivity of the neuron to the other input, without modifying its selectivity or receptive field properties. This type of modulatory interaction is important for two reasons. First, it is an extremely widespread integration mechanism; it is found in a plethora of cortical areas and in some subcortical structures as well, and as a consequence it seems to play an important role in a striking variety of functions, including eye and limb movements, navigation, spatial perception, attentional processing, and object recognition. Second, there is a theoretical foundation indicating that gain-modulated neurons may serve as a basis for a general class of computations, namely, coordinate transformations and the generation of invariant responses, which indeed may underlie all the brain functions just mentioned. This article describes the relationships between computational models, the physiological properties of a variety of gain-modulated neurons, and some of the behavioral consequences of damage to gain-modulated neural representations.
947	symbolic	2003	Raizada, RDS; Grossberg, S	Towards a theory of the laminar architecture of cerebral cortex: Computational clues from the visual system	CEREBRAL CORTEX	One of the most exciting and open research frontiers in neuroscience is that of seeking to understand the functional roles of the layers of cerebral cortex. New experimental techniques for probing the laminar circuitry of cortex have recently been developed, opening up novel opportunities for investigating how its six-layered architecture contributes to perception and cognition. The task of trying to interpret this complex structure can be facilitated by theoretical analyses of the types of computations that cortex is carrying out, and of how these might be implemented in specific cortical circuits. We have recently developed a detailed neural model of how the parvocellular stream of the visual cortex utilizes its feedforward, feedback and horizontal interactions for purposes of visual filtering, attention and perceptual grouping. This model, called LAMINART, shows how these perceptual processes relate to the mechanisms that ensure the stable development of cortical circuits in the infant, and to the continued stability of learning in the adult. The present article reviews this laminar theory of visual cortex, considers how it may be generalized towards a more comprehensive theory that encompasses other cortical areas and cognitive processes, and shows how its laminar framework generates a variety of testable predictions.
948	symbolic	1998	O'Reilly, RC	Six principles for biologically based computational models of cortical cognition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	This review describes and motivates six principles for computational cognitive neuroscience models: biological realism, distributed representations, inhibitory competition. bidirectional activation propagation, error-driven task learning, and Hebbian model learning. Although these principles are supported by a number of hive, computational and biological motivations, the prototypical neural-network I (a feedforward back-propagation network) incorporates only two of them, and widely used model incorporates all of them. It is argued here that these principles should be integrated into a coherent overall framework, and some potential synergies and conflicts in doing so are discussed.
949	symbolic	2002	Thomas, M; Karmiloff-Smith, A	Are developmental disorders like cases of adult brain damage? Implications from connectionist modelling	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	It is often assumed that similar domain-specific behavioural impairments found in cases of adult brain damage and developmental disorders correspond to similar underlying causes, and can serve as convergent evidence for the modular structure of the normal adult cognitive system. We argue that this correspondence is contingent on an unsupported assumption that atypical development can produce selective deficits while the rest of the system develops normally (Residual Normality), and that this assumption tends to bias data collection in the field. Based on a review of connectionist models of acquired and developmental disorders in the domains of reading and past tense, as well as on new simulations, we explore the computational viability of Residual Normality and the potential role of development in producing behavioural deficits. Simulations demonstrate that damage to a developmental model can produce very different effects depending on whether it occurs prior to or following the training process. Because developmental disorders typically involve damage prior to learning, we conclude that the developmental process is a key component of the explanation of endstate impairments in such disorders. further simulations demonstrate that in simple connectionist learning systems, the assumption of Residual Normality is undermined by processes of compensation or alteration elsewhere in the system. We outline the precise computational conditions required for Residual Normality to hold in development, and suggest that in many cases it is an unlikely hypothesis. We conclude that in developmental disorders, inferences from behavioural deficits to underlying structure crucially depend on developmental conditions, and that the process of ontogenetic development cannot be ignored in constructing models of developmental disorders.
950	symbolic	2005	Howard, MW; Fotedar, MS; Datey, AV; Hasselmo, ME	The temporal context model in spatial navigation and relational learning: Toward a common explanation of medial temporal lobe function across domains	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The medial temporal lobe (MTL) has been studied extensively at all levels of analysis, yet its function remains unclear. Theory regarding the cognitive function of the MTL has centered along 3 themes. Different authors have emphasized the role of the MTL in episodic recall, spatial navigation, or relational memory. Starting with the temporal context model (M. W. Howard & M. J. Kahana, 2002a), a distributed memory model that has been applied to benchmark data from episodic recall tasks, the authors propose that the entorhinal cortex supports a gradually changing representation of temporal context and the hippocampus proper enables retrieval of these contextual states. Simulation studies show this hypothesis explains the firing of place cells in the entorhinal cortex and the behavioral effects of hippocampal lesion in relational memory tasks. These results constitute a first step toward a unified computational theory of MTL function that integrates neurophysiological, neuropsychological, and cognitive findings.
951	symbolic	2005	Holroyd, CB; Yeung, N; Coles, MGH; Cohen, JD	A mechanism for error detection in speeded response time tasks	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	The concept of error detection plays a central role in theories of executive control. In this article, the authors present a mechanism that can rapidly detect errors in speeded response time tasks. This error monitor assigns values to the output of cognitive processes involved in stimulus categorization and response generation and detects errors by identifying states of the system associated with negative value. The mechanism is formalized in a computational model based on a recent theoretical framework for understanding error processing in humans (C. B. Holroyd & M. G. H. Coles, 2002). The model is used to simulate behavioral and event-related brain potential data in a speeded response time task, and the results of the simulation are compared with empirical data.
952	symbolic	2003	McCandliss, BD; Noble, KG	The development of reading impairment: A cognitive neuroscience model	MENTAL RETARDATION AND DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES RESEARCH REVIEWS	This review discusses recent cognitive neuroscience investigations into the biological bases of developmental dyslexia, a common disorder impacting approximately 5 to 17 percent of the population [Rutter, 1978, I. Prevalence and types of dyslexia. In: Benton A, Pearl D (eds.), Dyslexia: An appraisal of current knowledge. New York: Oxford; Stanovich, 1986, Matthew effects in reading: Some consequences of individual differences in the acquisition of literacy. Reading Research Quarterly 21: 360-407]. Our aim is to summarize central findings from several lines of evidence that converge on pivotal aspects of the brain bases of developmental dyslexia. We highlight ways in which the approaches and methodologies of developmental cognitive neuroscience that are addressed in this special issue-including neuroimaging, human genetics, refinement of cognitive and biological phenotypes, neural plasticity and computational model-can be employed in uncovering the biological bases of this disorder. Taking a developmental perspective on the biological bases of dyslexia, we propose a simple cascading model for the developmental progression of this disorder, in which individual differences in brain areas associated with phonological processing might influence the specialization of visual areas involved in the rapid processing of written words. We also discuss recent efforts to understand the impact of successful reading interventions in terms of changes within cortical circuits associated with reading ability. (C) 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
953	symbolic	2011	Yartsev, MM; Witter, MP; Ulanovsky, N	Grid cells without theta oscillations in the entorhinal cortex of bats	NATURE	Grid cells provide a neural representation of space, by discharging when an animal traverses through the vertices of a periodic hexagonal grid spanning the environment(1). Although grid cells have been characterized in detail in rats(1-6), the fundamental question of what neural dynamics give rise to the grid structure remains unresolved. Two competing classes of models were proposed: network models, based on attractor dynamics(7-9), and oscillatory interference models, which propose that interference between somatic and dendritic theta-band oscillations (4-10 Hz) in single neurons transforms a temporal oscillation into a spatially periodic grid(10-13). So far, these models could not be dissociated experimentally, because rodent grid cells always co-exist with continuous theta oscillations(4-6,14). Here we used a novel animal model, the Egyptian fruit bat(15,16), to refute the proposed causal link between grids and theta oscillations. On the basis of our previous finding from bat hippocampus, of spatially tuned place cells in the absence of continuous theta oscillations(17), we hypothesized that grid cells in bat medial entorhinal cortex might also exist without theta oscillations. Indeed, we found grid cells in bat medial entorhinal cortex that shared remarkable similarities to rodent grid cells. Notably, the grids existed in the absence of continuous theta-band oscillations, and with almost no theta modulation of grid-cell spiking-both of which are essential prerequisites of the oscillatory interference models. Our results provide a direct demonstration of grid cells in a non-rodent species. Furthermore, they strongly argue against a major class of computational models of grid cells.
954	symbolic	2010	Cavanagh, JF; Frank, MJ; Klein, TJ; Allen, JJB	Frontal theta links prediction errors to behavioral adaptation in reinforcement learning	NEUROIMAGE	Investigations into action monitoring have consistently detailed a frontocentral voltage deflection in the event-related potential (ERP) following the presentation of negatively valenced feedback, sometimes termed the feed back-related negativity (FRN). The FRN has been proposed to reflect a neural response to prediction errors during reinforcement learning, yet the single-trial relationship between neural activity and the quanta of expectation violation remains untested. Although ERP methods are not well suited to single-trial analyses, the FRN has been associated with theta band oscillatory perturbations in the medial prefrontal cortex. Mediofrontal theta oscillations have been previously associated with expectation violation and behavioral adaptation and are well suited to single-trial analysis. Here, we recorded EEG activity during a probabilistic reinforcement learning task and fit the performance data to an abstract computational model (Q-learning) for calculation of single-trial reward prediction errors. Single-trial theta oscillatory activities following feedback were investigated within the context of expectation (prediction error) and adaptation (subsequent reaction time change). Results indicate that interactive medial and lateral frontal theta activities reflect the degree of negative and positive reward prediction error in the service of behavioral adaptation. These different brain areas use prediction error calculations for different behavioral adaptations, with medial frontal theta reflecting the utilization of prediction errors for reaction time slowing (specifically following errors), but lateral frontal theta reflecting prediction errors leading to working memory-related reaction time speeding for the correct choice. (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
955	symbolic	2011	Jones, M; Love, BC	Pinning down the theoretical commitments of Bayesian cognitive models	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Mathematical developments in probabilistic inference have led to optimism over the prospects for Bayesian models of cognition. Our target article calls for better differentiation of these technical developments from theoretical contributions. It distinguishes between Bayesian Fundamentalism, which is theoretically limited because of its neglect of psychological mechanism, and Bayesian Enlightenment, which integrates rational and mechanistic considerations and is thus better positioned to advance psychological theory. The commentaries almost uniformly agree that mechanistic grounding is critical to the success of the Bayesian program. Some commentaries raise additional challenges, which we address here. Other commentaries claim that all Bayesian models are mechanistically grounded, while at the same time holding that they should be evaluated only on a computational level. We argue this contradictory stance makes it difficult to evaluate a model's scientific contribution, and that the psychological commitments of Bayesian models need to be made more explicit.
956	symbolic	2014	Cavanagh, JF; Frank, MJ	Frontal theta as a mechanism for cognitive control	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Recent advancements in cognitive neuroscience have afforded a description of neural responses in terms of latent algorithmic operations. However, the adoption of this approach to human scalp electroencephalography (EEG) has been more limited, despite the ability of this methodology to quantify canonical neuronal processes. Here, we provide evidence that theta band activities over the midfrontal cortex appear to reflect a common computation used for realizing the need for cognitive control. Moreover, by virtue of inherent properties of field oscillations, these theta band processes may be used to communicate this need and subsequently implement such control across disparate brain regions. Thus, frontal theta is a compelling candidate mechanism by which emergent processes, such as 'cognitive control', may be biophysically realized.
957	symbolic	1995	BIENENSTOCK, E	A MODEL OF NEOCORTEX	NETWORK-COMPUTATION IN NEURAL SYSTEMS	Prompted by considerations about (i) the compositionality of cognitive functions, (ii) the physiology of individual cortical neurons, (iii) the role of accurately timed spike patterns in cortex, and (iv) the regulation of global cortical activity, we suggest that the dynamics of cortex on the 1-ms time scale may be described as the activation of circuits of the synfirechain type (Abeles 1982, 1991).  We suggest that the fundamental computational unit in cortex may be a wave-like spatio-temporal pattern of synfire type, and that the binding mechanism underlying compositionality in cognition may be the accurate synchronization of synfire waves that propagate simultaneously on distinct, weakly coupled, synfire chains.  We propose that Hebbian synaptic plasticity may result in a superposition of synfire chains in cortical connectivity, whereby a given neuron participates in many distinct chains.  We investigate the behaviour of a much-simplified model of cortical dynamics devised along these principles.  Calculations and numerical experiments are performed based on an assumption of randomness of stored chains, in the style of statistical physics.  It is demonstrated that:  (i) there exists a critical value for the total length of stored chains; (ii) this storage capacity is linear in the network's size; (iii) the behaviour of the network around the critical point is characterized by the self-regulation of the number of synfire waves coactive in the network at any given time.
958	symbolic	2009	Wyble, B; Nieuwenstein, M; Bowman, H	The Attentional Blink Provides Episodic Distinctiveness: Sparing at a Cost	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The attentional blink (J. E. Raymond. K. L. Shapiro, & K. M. Arnett. 1992) refers to an apparent gap in perception observed when a second target follows a first within several hundred milliseconds. Theoretical and computational work have provided explanations for early sets of blink data, but more recent data have challenged these accounts by showing that the blink is attenuated when subjects encode strings of stimuli (J. Kawahara, T. Kumada. & V. Di Lollo. 2006 A R. Nieuwenstein & M. C. Potter. 2006: C. N. Olivers, 2007) or are distracted (C. N. Olivers & S. Nieuwenhuis. 2005) while viewing the rapid serial visual presentation stream. The authors describe the episodic simultaneous type, serial token model. a computational account of encoding Visual Stimuli into working memory that suggests that the attentional blink is a cognitive strategy rather than a resource limitation. This model is composed of neurobiologically plausible elements and simulates the attentional blink with a competitive attentional mechanism that facilitates the formation of episodically distinct representations within working memory. In addition to addressing the blink, the model addresses the phenomena of repetition blindness and whole report Superiority, producing predictions that are supported by experimental work.
959	symbolic	2002	Martignon, L; Hoffrage, U	Fast, frugal, and fit: Simple heuristics for paired comparison	THEORY AND DECISION	This article provides an overview of recent results on lexicographic, linear, and Bayesian models for paired comparison from a cognitive psychology perspective. Within each class, we distinguish subclasses according to the computational complexity required for parameter setting. We identify the optimal model in each class, where optimality is defined with respect to performance when fitting known data. Although not optimal when fitting data, simple models can be astonishingly accurate when generalizing to new data. A simple heuristic belonging to the class of lexicographic models is Take The Best (Gigerenzer & Goldstein (1996) Psychol. Rev. 102: 684). It is more robust than other lexicographic strategies which use complex procedures to establish a cue hierarchy. In fact, it is robust due to its simplicity, not despite it. Similarly, Take The Best looks up only a fraction of the information that linear and Bayesian models require; yet it achieves performance comparable to that of models which integrate information. Due to its simplicity, frugality, and accuracy, Take The Best is a plausible candidate for a psychological model in the tradition of bounded rationality. We review empirical evidence showing the descriptive validity of fast and frugal heuristics.
960	symbolic	1993	GEARY, DC; FRENSCH, PA; WILEY, JG	SIMPLE AND COMPLEX MENTAL SUBTRACTION - STRATEGY CHOICE AND SPEED-OF-PROCESSING DIFFERENCES IN YOUNGER AND OLDER ADULTS	PSYCHOLOGY AND AGING	Thirty-six younger adults (10 male, 26 female; ages 18 to 38 years) and 36 older adults (14 male, 22 female; ages 61 to 80 years) completed simple and complex paper-and-pencil subtraction tests and solved a series of simple and complex computer-presented subtraction problems. For the computer task, strategies and solution times were recorded on a trial-by-trial basis. Older Ss used a developmentally more mature mix of problem-solving strategies to solve both simple and complex subtraction problems. Analyses of component scores derived from the solution times suggest that the older Ss are slower at number encoding and number production but faster at executing the borrow procedure. In contrast, groups did not appear to differ in the speed of subtraction fact retrieval. Results from a computational simulation are consistent with the interpretation that older adults' advantage for strategy choices and for the speed of executing the borrow procedure might result from more practice solving subtraction problems.
961	symbolic	2013	Wang, M; Yang, Y; Wang, CJ; Gamo, NJ; Jin, LE; Mazer, JA; Morrison, JH; Wang, XJ; Arnsten, AFT	NMDA Receptors Subserve Persistent Neuronal Firing during Working Memory in Dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex	NEURON	Neurons in the primate dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dIPFC) generate persistent firing in the absence of sensory stimulation, the foundation of mental representation. Persistent firing arises from recurrent excitation within a network of pyramidal Delay cells. Here, we examined glutamate receptor influences underlying persistent firing in primate dIPFC during a spatial working memory task. Computational models predicted dependence on NMDA receptor (NMDAR) NR2B stimulation, and Delay cell persistent firing was abolished by local NR2B NMDAR blockade or by systemic ketamine administration. AMPA receptors (AMPARs) contributed background depolarization to sustain network firing. In contrast, many Response cells were sensitive to AMPAR blockade and increased firing after systemic ketamine, indicating that models of ketamine actions should be refined to reflect neuronal heterogeneity. The reliance of Delay cells on NMDAR may explain why insults to NMDARs in schizophrenia or Alzheimer's disease profoundly impair cognition.
962	symbolic	2007	Hillis, AE	Aphasia - Progress in the last quarter of a century	NEUROLOGY	In the last 25 years, characterization of aphasia has shifted from descriptions of the language tasks that are impaired by brain damage to identification of the disrupted cognitive processes underlying language. At the same time advances in technology, including functional imaging, electrophysiologic studies, perfusion imaging, diffusion tensor imaging, and transcranial magnetic stimulation, have led to new insights regarding the relationships between language and the brain. These insights, together with computational models of language processes, converge on the view that a given language task relies on a complex set of cognitive processes and representations carried out by an intricate network of neural regions working together. Recovery from aphasia depends on restoration of tissue function or reorganization of the cognitive/neural network underlying language, which can be facilitated by a number of diverse interventions. The original research by the author reported in this article was supported by NIH R01 DC05375.
963	symbolic	1998	Burgess, C; Livesay, K; Lund, K	Explorations in context space: Words, sentences, discourse	DISCOURSE PROCESSES	Deriving representations of meaning, whether at the word, the sentence, or the discourse level, is a problem with a long history in cognitive psychology and psycholinguistics. In this article, we describe a computational model of high-dimensional context space, the Hyperspace Analog to Language (HAL), and present simulation evidence that HAL's vector representations can provide sufficient information to make semantic, grammatical, and abstract distinctions. Human participants were able to use the context neighborhoods that HAL generates to match words with similar items and to derive the word (or a similar word) from the neighborhood, thus demonstrating the cognitive compatibility of the representations with human processing. An experiment exploring the meaning of agent- and patient-oriented verbs provided the context for discussing how the connotative aspects of word neighborhoods could provide cues in establishing a discourse model. Using the vector representations to build a sentence-level representation was attempted, but the results were not promising. This limitation of the representations is presented in the context of other similar models that have been more effective, A final set of experiments explored the nature of;verbs and verb instruments, and we introduce a new methodology that extracts conceptual intersections from the high-dimensional context space.
964	symbolic	2008	Niv, Y; Schoenbaum, G	Dialogues on prediction errors	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The recognition that computational ideas from reinforcement learning are relevant to the study of neural circuits has taken the cognitive neuroscience community by storm. A central tenet of these models is that discrepancies between actual and expected outcomes can be used for learning. Neural correlates of such prediction-error signals have been observed now in midbrain dopaminergic neurons, striatum, amygdala and even prefrontal cortex, and models incorporating prediction errors have been invoked to explain complex phenomena such as the transition from goal-directed to habitual behavior. Yet, like any revolution, the fast-paced progress has left an uneven understanding in its wake. Here, we provide answers to ten simple questions about prediction errors, with the aim of exposing both the strengths and the limitations of this active area of neuroscience research.
965	symbolic	2002	Li, SC; Sikstrom, S	Integrative neurocomputational perspectives on cognitive aging, neuromodulation, and representation	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	Besides neuroanatomical changes, neuromodulatory mechanisms are also compromised during aging. Neural network models are suitable tools for exploring the relatively broad and homogenous neuromodulatory influences on cortical function. Computational approaches for understanding neuromodulation of the dynamic properties of cortical function and recent neurocomputational theories relating different aspects of cognitive aging with declines in neuromodulation are reviewed. Considered within an integrative cross-level neurocomputational framework, aging-related decline in dopaminergic neurornodulation reduces the fidelity of neural information and gives rise to less distinctive neural pattern representations that may underlie various facets of aging cognitive and, possibly also, sensorimotor phenomena. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
966	symbolic	2002	Fincham, JM; Carter, CS; van Veen, V; Stenger, VA; Anderson, JR	Neural mechanisms of planning: A computational analysis using event-related fMRI	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	To investigate the neural mechanisms of planning, we used a novel adaptation of the Tower of Hanoi (TOH) task and event-related functional MRI. Participants were trained in applying a specific strategy to an isomorph of the five-disk TOH task. After training, participants solved novel problems during event-related functional MRI. A computational cognitive model of the task was used to generate a reference time series representing the expected blood oxygen level-dependent response in brain areas involved in the manipulation and planning of goals. This time series was used as one term within a general linear modeling framework to identify brain areas in which the time course of activity varied as a function of goal-processing events. Two distinct time courses of activation were identified, one in which activation varied parametrically with goal-processing operations, and the other in which activation became pronounced only during goal-processing intensive trials. Regions showing the parametric relationship comprised a frontoparietal system and include right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex [Brodmann's area (BA 9)], bilateral parietal (BA 40/7), and bilateral premotor (BA 6) areas. Regions preferentially engaged only during goal-intensive processing include left inferior frontal gyrus (BA 44). The implications of these results for the current model, as well as for our understanding of the neural mechanisms of planning and functional specialization of the prefrontal cortex, are discussed.
967	symbolic	2002	Seager, MA; Johnson, LD; Chabot, ES; Asaka, Y; Berry, SD	Oscillatory brain states and learning: Impact of hippocampal theta-contingent training	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Eyeblink classical conditioning is a relatively simple form of associative learning that has become an invaluable tool in our understanding of the neural mechanisms of learning. When studying rabbits in this paradigm, we observed a dramatic modification of learning rate by conducting training during episodes of either hippocampal theta or hippocampal non-theta activity as determined by on-line slow-wave spectral analysis. Specifically, if animals were given trials only when a computer analysis verified a predominance of slow-wave oscillations at theta frequencies (3-8 Hz), they learned in half as many trials as animals trained during non-theta hippocampal activity (58 vs. 115). This finding provides important evidence from awake, behaving animals that supports recent advances in our knowledge of (i) brain sites and neurobiological mechanisms of learning and memory, specifically hippocampus and theta oscillations, (ii) the biological plausibility of current models of hippocampal function that posit important roles for oscillatory potentials, and (iii) the design of interfaces between biological and cybernetic (electronic) systems that can optimize cognitive processes and performance.
968	symbolic	1997	Gerstner, W; Kreiter, AK; Markram, H; Herz, AVM	Neural codes: Firing rates and beyond	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Computational neuroscience has contributed significantly to our understanding of higher brain function by combining experimental neurobiology, psychophysics, modeling, and mathematical analysis. This article reviews recent advances in a key area: neural coding and information processing, It is shown that synapses are capable of supporting computations based on highly structured temporal codes, Such codes could provide a substrate for unambiguous representations of complex stimuli and be used to solve difficult cognitive tasks, such as the binding problem, Unsupervised learning rules could generate the circuitry required for precise temporal codes, Together, these results indicate that neural systems perform a rich repertoire of computations based on action potential timing.
969	symbolic	2007	Brown, JW; Reynolds, JR; Braver, TS	A computational model of fractionated conflict-control mechanisms in task-switching	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	A feature of human cognition is the ability to monitor and adjust one's own behavior under changing circumstances. A dynamic balance between controlled and rapid responding is needed to adapt to a fluctuating environment. We suggest that cognitive control may include, among other things, two distinct processes. Incongruent stimuli may drive top-down facilitation of task-relevant responses to bias performance toward exploitation vs. exploration. Task or response switches may generally slow responses to bias toward accuracy vs. speed and exploration vs. exploitation. Behavioral results from a task switching study demonstrate these two distinct processes as revealed by higher-order sequential effects. A computational model implements the two conflict-control mechanisms, which allow it to capture many complex and novel sequential effects. Lesion studies with the model demonstrate that the model is unable to capture these effects without the conflict-control loops and show how each monitoring component modulates cognitive control. The results suggest numerous testable predictions regarding the neural substrates of cognitive control. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
970	symbolic	1996	Plaut, DC	Relearning after damage in connectionist networks: Toward a theory of rehabilitation	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	Connectionist modeling offers a useful computational framework for exploring the nature of normal and impaired cognitive processes. The current work extends the relevance of connectionist modeling in neuropsychology to address issues in cognitive rehabilitation: the degree and speed of recovery through retraining, the extent to which improvement on treated items generalizes to untreated items, and how treated items are selected to maximize this generalization. A network previously used to model impairments in mapping orthography to semantics is retrained after damage. The degree of relearning and generalization varies considerably for different lesion locations, and has interesting implications for understanding the nature and variability of recovery in patients. Tn a second simulation, retraining on words whose semantics are atypical of their category yields more generalization than retraining on more typical words, suggesting a counterintuitive strategy for selecting items in patient therapy to maximize recovery. In a final simulation, changes in the pattern of errors produced by the network over the course of recovery is used to constrain explanations of the nature of recovery of analogous brain-damaged patients. Taken together, the findings demonstrate that the nature of relearning in damaged connectionist networks can make important contributions to a theory of rehabilitation in patients. (C) 1996 Academic Press, Inc.
971	symbolic	1996	Shultz, TR; Lepper, MR	Cognitive dissonance reduction as constraint satisfaction	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A constraint satisfaction neural network model (the consonance model) simulated data from the two major cognitive dissonance paradigms of insufficient justification and free choice. In several cases, the model fit the human data better than did cognitive dissonance theory. Superior fits were due to the inclusion of constraints that were not part of dissonance theory and to the increased precision inherent to this computational approach. Predictions generated by the model for a free choice between undesirable alternatives were confirmed in a new psychological experiment. The success of the consonance model underscores important, unforeseen similarities between what had been formerly regarded as the rather exotic process of dissonance reduction and a variety of other, more mundane psychological processes. Many of these processes can be understood as the progressive application of constraints supplied by beliefs and attitudes.
972	symbolic	2012	Laird, JE	Soar Cognitive Architecture	SOAR COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURE	0
973	symbolic	2011	Yassa, MA; Lacy, JW; Stark, SM; Albert, MS; Gallagher, M; Stark, CEL	Pattern Separation Deficits Associated With Increased Hippocampal CA3 and Dentate Gyrus Activity in Nondemented Older Adults	HIPPOCAMPUS	There is widespread evidence that memory deteriorates with aging, however the exact mechanisms that underlie these changes are not well understood. Given the growing size of the aging population, there is an imperative to study age-related neurocognitive changes in order to better parse healthy from pathological aging. Using a behavioral paradigm that taxes pattern separation (the ability to differentiate novel yet similar information from previously learned information and thus avoid interference), we investigated age-related neural changes in the human hippocampus using high-resolution (1.5 mm isotropic) blood-oxygenation level-dependent fMRI. Recent evidence from animal studies suggests that hyperactivity in the CA3 region of the hippocampus may underlie behavioral deficits in pattern separation in aged rats. Here, we report evidence that is consistent with findings from the animal studies. We found a behavioral impairment in pattern separation in a sample of healthy older adults compared with young controls. We also found a related increase in CA3/dentate gyrus activity levels during an fMRI contrast that stresses pattern separation abilities. In a detailed analysis of behavior, we also found that the pattern of impairment was consistent with the predictions of the animal model, where larger changes in the input (greater dissimilarity) were required in order for elderly adults to successfully encode new information as distinct from previously learned information. These findings are also consistent with recent fMRI and behavioral reports in healthy aging, and further suggest that a specific functional deficit in the CA3/dentate network contributes to memory difficulties with aging. (C) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
974	symbolic	2010	Frintrop, S; Rome, E; Christensen, HI	Computational Visual Attention Systems and Their Cognitive Foundations: A Survey	ACM TRANSACTIONS ON APPLIED PERCEPTION	Based on concepts of the human visual system, computational visual attention systems aim to detect regions of interest in images. Psychologists, neurobiologists, and computer scientists have investigated visual attention thoroughly during the last decades and profited considerably from each other. However, the interdisciplinarity of the topic holds not only benefits but also difficulties: Concepts of other fields are usually hard to access due to differences in vocabulary and lack of knowledge of the relevant literature. This article aims to bridge this gap and bring together concepts and ideas from the different research areas. It provides an extensive survey of the grounding psychological and biological research on visual attention as well as the current state of the art of computational systems. Furthermore, it presents a broad range of applications of computational attention systems in fields like computer vision, cognitive systems, and mobile robotics. We conclude with a discussion on the limitations and open questions in the field.
975	symbolic	2011	Deco, G; Corbetta, M	The Dynamical Balance of the Brain at Rest	NEUROSCIENTIST	The authors review evidence that spontaneous, that is, not stimulus or task driven, activity in the brain at the level of large-scale neural systems is not noise, but orderly and organized in a series of functional networks that maintain, at all times, a high level of coherence. These networks of spontaneous activity correlation or resting state networks (RSN) are closely related to the underlying anatomical connectivity, but their topography is also gated by the history of prior task activation. Network coherence does not depend on covert cognitive activity, but its strength and integrity relates to behavioral performance. Some RSN are functionally organized as dynamically competing systems both at rest and during tasks. Computational studies show that one of such dynamics, the anticorrelation between networks, depends on noise-driven transitions between different multistable cluster synchronization states. These multistable states emerge because of transmission delays between regions that are modeled as coupled oscillators systems. Large-scale systems dynamics are useful for keeping different functional subnetworks in a state of heightened competition, which can be stabilized and fired by even small modulations of either sensory or internal signals.
976	symbolic	2005	Goldstone, RL; Janssen, MA	Computational models of collective behavior	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Computational models of human collective behavior offer promise in providing quantitative and empirically verifiable accounts of how individual decisions lead to the emergence of group-level organizations. Agent-based models (ABMs) describe interactions among individual agents and their environment, and provide a process-oriented alternative to descriptive mathematical models. Recent ABMs provide compelling accounts of group pattern formation, contagion and cooperation, and can be used to predict, manipulate and improve upon collective behavior. ABMs overcome an assumption that underlies much of cognitive science-that the individual is the crucial unit of cognition. The alternative advocated here is that individuals participate in collective organizations that they might not understand or even perceive, and that these organizations affect and are affected by individual behavior.
977	symbolic	1999	Humphreys, GW; Price, CJ; Riddoch, MJ	From objects to names: A cognitive neuroscience approach	PSYCHOLOGICAL RESEARCH-PSYCHOLOGISCHE FORSCHUNG	To name an object, we need both to recognize it and to access the associated phonological form, and phonological retrieval itself may be constrained by aspects of the visual recognition process. This paper reviews evidence for such constraints, drawing on data from experimental psychology, neuropsychology, functional imaging, and computational modelling. Data on picture identification in normal observers demonstrate that the speed of name retrieval processes differs for natural objects and artifacts, due at least in part to differences in visual similarity between exemplars within these categories. Also, effects of variables on early and late stages of object identification combine in an interactive rather than an additive manner, consistent with object processing stages operating in a continuous rather than a discrete manner. Neuropsychological evidence supports this proposal, demonstrating that subtle perceptual deficits can produce naming problems, even when there is good access to associated semantic knowledge. Functional activation studies further show increased activity in visual processing areas when conditions stress object naming relative to the recognition of familiar object structures. These studies indicate that object naming is based on a series of continuous processing stages and that naming involves increased visual processing relative to recognition tasks. The data can be modelled within an interactive activation and competition framework.
978	symbolic	2011	Bonawitz, E; Shafto, P; Gweon, H; Goodman, ND; Spelke, E; Schulz, L	The double-edged sword of pedagogy: Instruction limits spontaneous exploration and discovery	COGNITION	Motivated by computational analyses, we look at how teaching affects exploration and discovery. In Experiment 1, we investigated children's exploratory play after an adult pedagogically demonstrated a function of a toy, after an interrupted pedagogical demonstration, after a naive adult demonstrated the function, and at baseline. Preschoolers in the pedagogical condition focused almost exclusively on the target function; by contrast, children in the other conditions explored broadly. In Experiment 2, we show that children restrict their exploration both after direct instruction to themselves and after overhearing direct instruction given to another child; they do not show this constraint after observing direct instruction given to an adult or after observing a non-pedagogical intentional action. We discuss these findings as the result of rational inductive biases. In pedagogical contexts, a teacher's failure to provide evidence for additional functions provides evidence for their absence: such contexts generalize from child to child (because children are likely to have comparable states of knowledge) but not from adult to child. Thus, pedagogy promotes efficient learning but at a cost: children are less likely to perform potentially irrelevant actions but also less likely to discover novel information. (C) 2010 Published by Elsevier B.V.
979	symbolic	2008	Milford, MJ; Wyeth, GF	Mapping a Suburb With a Single Camera Using a Biologically Inspired SLAM System	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ROBOTICS	This paper describes a biologically inspired approach to vision-only simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) on ground-based platforms. The core SLAM system, dubbed RatSLAM, is based on computational models of the rodent hippocampus, and is coupled with a lightweight vision system that provides odometry and appearance information. RatSLAM builds a map in an online manner, driving loop closure and relocalization through sequences of familiar visual scenes. Visual ambiguity is managed by maintaining multiple competing vehicle pose estimates, while cumulative errors in odometry are corrected after loop closure by a map correction algorithm. We demonstrate the mapping performance of the system on a 66 km car journey through a complex suburban road network. Using only a web camera operating at 10 Hz, RatSLAM generates a coherent map of the entire environment at real-time speed, correctly closing more than 51 loops of up to 5 km in length.
980	symbolic	1999	Klahr, D; Simon, HA	Studies of scientific discovery: Complementary approaches and convergent findings	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	This review integrates 4 major approaches to the study of science-historical accounts of scientific discoveries, psychological experiments with nonscientists working on tasks related to scientific discoveries, direct observation of ongoing scientific laboratories, and computational modeling of scientific discovery processes-by viewing them through the lens of the theory of human problem solving. The authors provide a brief justification for the study of scientific discovery, a summary of the major approaches, and criteria for comparing and contrasting them. Then, they apply these criteria to the different approaches and indicate their complementarities. Finally, they provide several examples of convergent principles of the process of scientific discovery.
981	symbolic	2007	Frank, MJ; Santamaria, A; O'Reilly, RC; Willcutt, E	Testing computational models of dopamine and noradrenaline dysfunction in attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder	NEUROPSYCHOPHARMACOLOGY	We test our neurocomputational model of fronto-striatal dopamine (DA) and noradrenaline (NA) function for understanding cognitive and motivational deficits in attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Our model predicts that low striatal DA levels in ADHD should lead to deficits in 'Go' learning from positive reinforcement, which should be alleviated by stimulant medications, as observed with DA manipulations in other populations. Indeed, while nonmedicated adult ADHD participants were impaired at both positive ( Go) and negative (NoGo) reinforcement learning, only the former deficits were ameliorated by medication. We also found evidence for our model's extension of the same striatal DA mechanisms to working memory, via interactions with prefrontal cortex. In a modified AX-continuous performance task, ADHD participants showed reduced sensitivity to working memory contextual information, despite no global performance deficits, and were more susceptible to the influence of distractor stimuli presented during the delay. These effects were reversed with stimulant medications. Moreover, the tendency for medications to improve Go relative to NoGo reinforcement learning was predictive of their improvement in working memory in distracting conditions, suggestive of common DA mechanisms and supporting a unified account of DA function in ADHD. However, other ADHD effects such as erratic trial-to-trial switching and reaction time variability are not accounted for by model DA mechanisms, and are instead consistent with cortical noradrenergic dysfunction and associated computational models. Accordingly, putative NA deficits were correlated with each other and independent of putative DA-related deficits. Taken together, our results demonstrate the usefulness of computational approaches for understanding cognitive deficits in ADHD.
982	symbolic	2006	Wilson, C	Learning phonology with substantive bias: An experimental and computational study of velar palatalization	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	There is an active debate within the field of phonology concerning the cognitive status of substantive phonetic factors such as ease of articulation and perceptual distinctiveness. A new framework is proposed in which substance acts as a bias, or prior, on phonological learning. Two experiments tested this framework with a method in which participants are first provided highly impoverished evidence of a new phonological pattern, and then tested on how they extend this pattern to novel contexts and novel sounds. Participants were found to generalize velar palatalization (e.g., the change from [k] as in keep to [t integral] as in cheap) in a way that accords with linguistic typology, and that is predicted by a cognitive bias in favor of changes that relate perceptually similar sounds. Velar palatalization was extended from the mid front vowel context (i.e., before [e] as in cape) to the high front vowel context (i.e., before [i] as in keep), but not vice versa. The key explanatory notion of perceptual similarity is quantified with a psychological model of categorization, and the substantively biased framework is formalized as a conditional random field. Implications of these results for the debate on substance, theories of phonological generalization, and the formalization of similarity are discussed.
983	symbolic	2009	Cohen, MX; Frank, MJ	Neurocomputational models of basal ganglia function in learning, memory and choice	BEHAVIOURAL BRAIN RESEARCH	The basal ganglia (BG) are critical for the coordination of several motor, cognitive, and emotional functions and become dysfunctional in several pathological states ranging from Parkinson's disease to Schizophrenia. Here we review principles developed within a neurocomputational framework of BG and related circuitry which provide insights into their functional roles in behavior. We focus on two classes of models: those that incorporate aspects of biological realism and constrained by functional principles, and more abstract mathematical models focusing on the higher level computational goals of the BG. While the former are arguably more "realistic", the latter have a complementary advantage in being able to describe functional principles of how the system works in a relatively simple set of equations, but are less suited to making specific hypotheses about the roles of specific nuclei and neurophysiological processes. We review the basic architecture and assumptions of these models, their relevance to our understanding of the neurobiological and cognitive functions of the BG, and provide an update on the potential roles of biological details not explicitly incorporated in existing models. Empirical studies ranging from those in transgenic mice to dopaminergic manipulation, deep brain stimulation, and genetics in humans largely support model predictions and provide the basis for further refinement. Finally, we discuss possible future directions and possible ways to integrate different types of models. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
984	symbolic	2005	Nieuwenhuis, S; Gilzenrat, MS; Holmes, BD; Cohen, JD	The role of the locus coeruleus in mediating the attentional blink: A neurocomputational theory	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	The attentional blink refers to the transient impairment in perceiving the 2nd of 2 targets presented in close temporal proximity. In this article, the authors propose a neurobiological mechanism for this effect. The authors extend a recently developed computational model of the potentiating influence of the locus coeruleus-norepinephrine system on information processing and hypothesize that a reftactoriness in the function of this system may account for the attentional blink. The model accurately simulates the time course of the attentional blink, including Lag 1 sparing. The theory also offers an account of the close relationship of the attentional blink to the electrophysiological P3 component. The authors report results from two behavioral experiments that support a critical prediction of their theory regarding the time course of Lag 1 sparing. Finally, the relationship between the authors' neurocomputational theory and existing cognitive theories of the attentional blink is discussed.
985	symbolic	2008	Kalenscher, T; Pennartz, CMA	Is a bird in the hand worth two in the future? The neuroeconomics of intertemporal decision-making	PROGRESS IN NEUROBIOLOGY	When making intertemporal decisions, i.e., decisions between outcomes occurring at different instants in time, humans and animals prefer rewards with short-term availability over rewards that become available in the long run. Discounted utility theory (DUT) is an influential normative model for intertemporal decisions that attempts to capture preference over time. It prescribes which is the best decision to take with respect to consistent, coherent and optimal choice. Over the last few decades, DUT's descriptive validity has been critically challenged. Empirical studies found systematic violations of several of DUT's assumptions, including time-consistency of preferences, stationarity, constant discounting and utility maximisation. To account for these anomalies, alternative models have been devised in various academic disciplines, including economics, psychology, biology, philosophy, and most lately, cognitive neuroscience. This article reviews the most recent literature on the behavioural and neural processes underlying intertemporal choices, and elucidates to which extent these findings can be used to explain violations of DUT's assumptions. In the first three sections, DUT is introduced, and behavioural anomalies are discussed. The fourth part focuses on the neuroscience of intertemporal choice, including its functional neuroanatomy, attempts to find a discounted value signal in the brain, and recent efforts to identify neural mechanisms producing time-inconsistencies. In the last section, the computational literature on neural learning mechanisms is reviewed. Then, a new, biologically plausible computational model of intertemporal choice is proposed that is able to explain many of the behavioural anomalies. The implications of these results help to understand why humans and animals frequently decide irrationally and to their long-term economic disadvantage, and which neural mechanisms underly such decisions. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
986	symbolic	2002	Jones, AD; Cho, RY; Nystrom, LE; Cohen, JD; Braver, TS	A computational model of anterior cingulate function in speeded response tasks: Effects of frequency, sequence, and conflict	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	A growing body of evidence from functional neuroimaging and computational modeling studies indicates that the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) detects the presence of response conflict and conveys this information to other brain regions, enabling subsequent adjustments in cognitive control. The present study examined previous empirical findings of increased ACC for low-frequency stimuli across three distinct speeded response tasks (two-alternative forced choice, go/no-go, and oddball). Simulations conducted in a neural network model incorporating sequential priming mechanisms (developed in Cho et al., 2002) confirmed that a computational measure of response conflict was higher on low-frequency trials across all three tasks. In addition, the model captured detailed aspects of behavioral reaction time and accuracy data, predicted the dynamics of ACC activity related to trial sequence effects, and provided evidence for the functional role of conflict information in performance monitoring and optimization. The results indicate that the conflict-monitoring hypothesis, augmented by mechanisms for encoding stimulus history, can explain key phenomena associated with performance in sequential speeded response tasks.
987	symbolic	1999	Levitt, RE; Thomsen, J; Christiansen, TR; Kunz, JC; Jin, Y; Nass, C	Simulating project work processes and organizations: Toward a micro-contingency theory of organizational design	MANAGEMENT SCIENCE	The Virtual Design Team (VDT) extends and operationalizes Galbraith's (1973) information-processing view of organizations. VDT simulates the micro-level information processing, communication, and coordination behavior of participants in a project organization and predicts several measures of participant and project-level performance. VDT-1 (Cohen 1991) and VDT-2 (Christiansen 1993) modeled project organizations containing actors with perfectly congruent goals engaged in complex but routine engineering design work within static organization structures. VDT-S extends the VDT-2 work process representation to include measures of activity flexibility, complexity, uncertainty, and interdependence strength. It explicitly models the effects of goal incongruency between agents on their information processing and communication behavior while executing more flexible tasks. These extensions allow VDT to model more flexible organizations executing less routine work processes. VDT thus bridges rigorously between cognitive and social psychological micro-organization theory and sociological and economic macro-organization theory for project teams. VDT-3 has been used to model and simulate the design of two major subsystems of a complex satellite launch vehicle. This case study provides initial evidence that the micro-contingency theory embodied in VDT-5 can be used to predict organizational breakdowns, and to evaluate alternative organizational changes to mitigate identified risks. VDT thus supports true "organizational engineering" for project teams.
988	symbolic	2012	Frost, R	Towards a universal model of reading	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	In the last decade, reading research has seen a paradigmatic shift. A new wave of computational models of orthographic processing that offer various forms of noisy position or context-sensitive coding have revolutionized the field of visual word recognition. The influx of such models stems mainly from consistent findings, coming mostly from European languages, regarding an apparent insensitivity of skilled readers to letter order. Underlying the current revolution is the theoretical assumption that the insensitivity of readers to letter order reflects the special way in which the human brain encodes the position of letters in printed words. The present article discusses the theoretical shortcomings and misconceptions of this approach to visual word recognition. A systematic review of data obtained from a variety of languages demonstrates that letter-order insensitivity is neither a general property of the cognitive system nor a property of the brain in encoding letters. Rather, it is a variant and idiosyncratic characteristic of some languages, mostly European, reflecting a strategy of optimizing encoding resources, given the specific structure of words. Since the main goal of reading research is to develop theories that describe the fundamental and invariant phenomena of reading across orthographies, an alternative approach to model visual word recognition is offered. The dimensions of a possible universal model of reading, which outlines the common cognitive operations involved in orthographic processing in all writing systems, are discussed.
989	symbolic	2007	Rosenbaum, DA; Cohen, RG; Jax, SA; Weiss, DJ; van der Wel, R	The problem of serial order in behavior: Lashley's legacy	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	In a prescient paper Karl Lashley (1951) rejected reflex chaining accounts of the sequencing of behavior and argued instead for a more cognitive account in which behavioral sequences are typically controlled with central plans. An important feature of such plans, according to Lashley, is that they are hierarchical. Lashley offered several sources of evidence for the hierarchical organization for behavioral plans, and others afterward provided more evidence for this hypothesis. We briefly review that evidence here and then shift from a focus on the structure of plans (Lashley's point of concentration) to the processes by which plans are formed in real time. Two principles emerge from the studies we review. One is that plans are not formed from scratch for each successive movement sequence but instead are formed by making whatever changes are needed to distinguish the movement sequence to be performed next from the movement sequence that has just been performed. This plan-modification view is supported by two phenomena discovered in our laboratory: the parameter remapping effect, and the handpath priming effect. The other principle we review is that even single movements appear to be controlled with hierarchically organized plans. At the top level are the starting and goal postures. At the lower level are the intermediate states comprising the transition from the starting posture to the goal posture. The latter principle is supported by another phenomenon discovered in our lab, the end-state comfort effect, and by a computational model of motor planning which accounts for a large number of motor phenomena. Interestingly, the computational model hearkens back to a classical method of generating cartoon animations that relies on the production of keyframes first and the production of interframes (intermediate frames) second. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
990	symbolic	2007	Fu, WT; Pirolli, P	SNIF-ACT: A cognitive model of user navigation on the World Wide Web	HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	We describe the development of a computational cognitive model that explains navigation behavior on the World Wide Web. The model, called SNIF-ACT (Scent-based Navigation and Information Foraging in the ACT cognitive architecture), is motivated by Information Foraging Theory (IFT), which quantifies the perceived relevance of a Web link to a user's goal by a spreading activation mechanism. The model assumes that users evaluate links on a Web page sequentially and decide to click on a link or to go back to the previous page by a Bayesian satisficing model (BSM) that adaptively evaluates and selects actions based on a combination of previous and current assessments of the relevance of link texts to information goals. SNIF-ACT 1.0 utilizes the measure of utility, called information scent, derived from IFT to predict rankings of links on different Web pages. The model was tested against a detailed set of protocol data collected from 8 participants as they engaged in two information-seeking tasks using the World Wide Web. The model provided a good match to participants' link selections. In SNIF-ACT 2.0, we included the adaptive link selection mechanism from the BSM that sequentially evaluates links on a Web page. The mechanism allowed the model to dynamically build up the aspiration levels of actions in a satisficing process (e.g., to follow a link or leave a Web site) as it sequential assessed link texts on a Web page. The dynamic mechanism provides an integrated account of how and when users decide to click on a link or leave a page based on the sequential, ongoing experiences with the link context on current and previous Web pages. SNIF-ACT 2.0 was validated on a data set obtained from 74 subjects. Monte Carlo simulations of the model showed that SNIF-ACT 2.0 provided better fits to human data than SNIF-ACT 1.0 and a Position model that used position of links on a Web page to decide which link to select. We conclude that the combination of the IFT and the BSM provides a good description of user-Web interaction. Practical implications of the model are discussed.
991	symbolic	2001	Best, PJ; White, AM; Minai, A	Spatial processing in the brain: The activity of hippocampal place cells	ANNUAL REVIEW OF NEUROSCIENCE	The startling discovery by O'Keefe & Dostrovsky (Brain Res. 1971; 34: 171-75) that hippocampal neurons fire selectively in different regions or "place fields" of an environment and the subsequent development of the comprehensive theory by O'Keefe & Nadel (The Hippocampus as a Cognitive Map. Oxford, UK: Clarendon, 1978) that the hippocampus serves as a cognitive map have stimulated a substantial body of literature on the characteristics of hippocampal "place cells" and their relevance for our understanding of the mechanisms by which the brain processes spatial information. This paper reviews the major dimensions of the empirical research on place-cell activity and the development of computational models to explain various characteristics of place fields.
992	symbolic	1996	Gigerenzer, G	The psychology of good judgment: Frequency formats and simple algorithms	MEDICAL DECISION MAKING	Mind and environment evolve in tandem-almost a platitude. Much of judgment and decision making research, however, has compared cognition to standard statistical models, rather than to how well it is adapted to its environment. The author argues two points. First, cognitive algorithms are tuned to certain information formats, most likely to those that humans have encountered during their evolutionary history. In particular, Bayesian computations are simpler when the information is in a frequency format than when it is in a probability format. The author investigates whether frequency formats can make physicians reason more often the Bayesian way. Second, cognitive algorithms need to operate under constraints of limited time, knowledge, and computational power, and they need to exploit the structures of their environments. The author describes a fast and frugal algorithm, Take The Best, that violates standard principles of rational inference but can be as accurate as sophisticated ''optimal'' models for diagnostic inference.
993	symbolic	2009	He, Y; Chen, Z; Gong, GL; Evans, A	Neuronal Networks in Alzheimer's Disease	NEUROSCIENTIST	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, neurodegenerative disease that call be clinically characterized by impaired memory and many other cognitive functions. Previous studies have demonstrated that the impairment is accompanied by not only regional brain abnormalities but also changes in neuronal connectivity between anatomically distinct brain regions. Specifically, using neurophysiological and neuroimaging techniques as well as advanced graph theory-based computational approaches, several recent studies have suggested that AD patients have disruptive neuronal integrity in large-scale structural and functional brain Systems Underlying high-level cognition, as demonstrated by a loss of small-world network characteristics. Small world is an attractive model for the description of complex brain networks because it can Support both segregated and integrated information processing. The altered small-world organization thus reflects aberrant neuronal connectivity in the AD brain that is most likely to explain cognitive deficits caused by this disease. In this review, we will summarize recent advances in the brain network research on AD, focusing mainly on the large-scale structural and functional descriptions. I Me literature reviewed here Suggests that AD patients are associated with integrative abnormalities in the distributed neuronal networks, which could provide new insights into the disease mechanism in AD and help LIS to uncover an imaging-based biomarker for the diagnosis and monitoring of the disease.
994	symbolic	2000	Arbib, MA; Billard, A; Iacoboni, M; Oztop, E	Synthetic brain imaging: grasping, mirror neurons and imitation	NEURAL NETWORKS	The article contributes to the quest to relate global data on brain and behavior (e.g. from PET, Positron Emission Tomography, and fMRI. functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging) to the underpinning neural networks. Models tied to human brain imaging data often focus on a few "boxes" based on brain regions associated with exceptionally high blood flow, rather than analyzing the cooperative computation of multiple brain regions. For analysis directly at the level of such data, a schema-based model may be most appropriate. To further address neurophysiological data, the Synthetic PET imaging method uses computational models of biological neural circuitry based on animal data to predict and analyze the results of human PET studies. This technique makes use of the hypothesis that rCBF (regional cerebral blood Row) is correlated with the integrated synaptic activity in a localized brain region. We also describe the possible extension of the Synthetic PET method to fMRI. The second half of the paper then exemplifies this general research program with two case studies, one on visuo-motor processing for control of grasping (Section 3 in which the focus is on Synthetic PET) and the imitation of motor skills (Sections 4 and 5, with a focus on Synthetic fMRI). Our discussion of imitation pays particular attention to data on the mirror system in monkey (neural circuitry which allows the brain to recognize actions as well as execute them). Finally, Section 6 outlines the immense challenges in integrating models of different portions of the nervous system which address derailed neurophysiological data from studies of primates and other species; summarizes key issues for developing the methodology of Synthetic Brain Imaging; and shows how comparative neuroscience and evolutionary arguments will allow us to extend Synthetic Brain Imaging even to language and other cognitive functions for which few or no animal data are available. (C) 2000 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.
995	symbolic	2005	Uhlhaas, PJ; Silverstein, SM	Perceptual organization in schizophrenia spectrum disorders: Empirical research and theoretical implications	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	The research into perceptual organization in schizophrenia spectrum disorders has found evidence for and against a perceptual organization deficit and has interpreted the data from within several different theoretical frameworks. A synthesis of this evidence, however, reveals that this body of work has produced reliable evidence for deficits in schizophrenia, as well as for the clinical, stimulus, and task parameters associated with normal and abnormal performance. Recent models of cognition have also advanced understanding of the underlying pathophysiological processes of perceptual organization dysfunction in schizophrenia spectrum disorders. These suggest that deficits in perceptual organization may be one manifestation of a wider disturbance in the integration of contextually related information across space and time.
996	symbolic	2002	Pothos, EM; Chater, N	A simplicity principle in unsupervised human categorization	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We address the problem of predicting how people will spontaneously divide into groups a set of novel items. This is a process akin to perceptual organization. We therefore employ the simplicity principle from perceptual organization to propose a simplicity model of unconstrained spontaneous grouping. The simplicity model predicts that people would prefer the categories for a set of novel items that provide the simplest encoding of these items. Classification predictions are derived from the model without information either about the number of categories sought or information about the distributional properties of the objects to be classified. These features of the simplicity model distinguish it from other models in unsupervised categorization (where, for example, the number of categories sought is determined via a free parameter), and we discuss how these computational differences are related to differences in modeling objectives. The predictions of the simplicity model are validated in four experiments. We also discuss the significance of simplicity in cognitive modeling more generally. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
997	symbolic	1999	Moss, J; Case, R	Developing children's understanding of the rational numbers: A new model and an experimental curriculum	JOURNAL FOR RESEARCH IN MATHEMATICS EDUCATION	A new curriculum to introduce rational numbers was devised, using developmental theory as a guide. The Ist topic in the curriculum was percent in a linear-measurement context, in which halving as a computational strategy was emphasized. Two-place decimals were introduced next, followed by 3- and I-place decimals. Fractional notation was introduced last, as an alternative form for representing decimals. Sixteen 4th-grade students received the experimental curriculum. Thirteen carefully matched control students received a traditional curriculum. After instruction, students in the treatment group showed a deeper understanding of rational numbers than those in the; control group, showed less reliance on whole number strategies when solving novel problems, and made more frequent reference to proportional concepts in justifying their answers. Na differences were found in conventional computation between the 2 groups.
998	symbolic	1994	AMIT, DJ; BRUNEL, N; TSODYKS, MV	CORRELATIONS OF CORTICAL HEBBIAN REVERBERATIONS - THEORY VERSUS EXPERIMENT	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Interpreting recent single-unit recordings of delay activities in delayed match-to-sample experiments in anterior ventral temporal (AVT) cortex of monkeys in terms of reverberation dynamics, we present a model neural network of quasi-realistic elements that reproduces the empirical results in great detail. Information about the contiguity of successive stimuli in the training sequence, representing the fact that training is done on a set of uncorrelated stimuli presented in a fixed temporal sequence, is embedded in the synaptic structure. The model reproduces quite accurately the correlations between delay activity distributions corresponding to stimulation with the uncorrelated stimuli used for training. It reproduces also the activity distributions of spike rates on sample cells as a function of the stimulating pattern. It is, in our view, the first time that a computational phenomenon, represented on the neurophysiological level, is reproduced in all its quantitative aspects. The model is then used to make predictions about further features of the physiology of such experiments. Those include further properties of the correlations, features of selective cells as discriminators of stimuli provoking different delay activity distributions, and activity distributions among the neurons in a delay activity produced by a given pattern. The model has predictive implications also for the dependence of the delay activities on different training protocols. Finally, we discuss the perspectives of the interplay between such models and neurophysiology as well as its limitations and possible extensions.
999	symbolic	2011	Jepma, M; Nieuwenhuis, S	Pupil Diameter Predicts Changes in the Exploration-Exploitation Trade-off: Evidence for the Adaptive Gain Theory	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	The adaptive regulation of the balance between exploitation and exploration is critical for the optimization of behavioral performance. Animal research and computational modeling have suggested that changes in exploitative versus exploratory control state in response to changes in task utility are mediated by the neuromodulatory locus coeruleus-norepinephrine (LC-NE) system. Recent studies have suggested that utility-driven changes in control state correlate with pupil diameter, and that pupil diameter can be used as an indirect marker of LC activity. We measured participants' pupil diameter while they performed a gambling task with a gradually changing payoff structure. Each choice in this task can be classified as exploitative or exploratory using a computational model of reinforcement learning. We examined the relationship between pupil diameter, task utility, and choice strategy (exploitation vs. exploration), and found that (i) exploratory choices were preceded by a larger baseline pupil diameter than exploitative choices; (ii) individual differences in baseline pupil diameter were predictive of an individual's tendency to explore; and (iii) changes in pupil diameter surrounding the transition between exploitative and exploratory choices correlated with changes in task utility. These findings provide novel evidence that pupil diameter correlates closely with control state, and are consistent with a role for the LC-NE system in the regulation of the exploration-exploitation trade-off in humans.
1000	symbolic	2007	Barber, HA; Kutas, M	Interplay between computational models and cognitive electrophysiology in visual word recognition	BRAIN RESEARCH REVIEWS	In this article, we discuss the relevance of electrophysiological data to the enterprise of analyzing and understanding the reading process. Specifically, we detail how the event-related brain potential (ERP) technique (and its magnetic counterpart) can aid in development of models of visual word recognition. Any viable and accurate account of reading must take into account the temporal and anatomical constraints imposed by the fact that reading is a human brain function. We believe that neurophysiological (especially, although not limited to electrophysiological) data can serve an essential reference in the development of biologically realistic models of reading. We assess just how well extant electrophysiological data comport with specific predictions of existing computational models and offer some suggestions for the kinds of research that can address some of the remaining open questions. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1001	symbolic	2004	West, R	The effects of aging on controlled attention and conflict processing in the Stroop task	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Recent computational modeling and behavioral work indicate that age-related declines in the ability to represent task context may contribute to disruptions of working memory and selective attention in older adults. However, it is unclear whether age-related declines in context processing arise from a disruption of the encoding or maintenance of task context and how age-related declines in context processing interact with mechanisms supporting conflict detection and resolution processes contributing to efficient selection of task-relevant information. This study examines the effects of aging on the neural correlates of context and conflict processing in the Stroop task using event-related brain potentials (ERPs). Age-related differences in the time course of modulations of the ERPs associated with encoding (P3) and maintaining (slow wave) task context were observed. There were also age-related differences in the N450, conflict SP, and ERN associated with conflict processing that interacted with task context. These data indicate that aging is associated with declines in the efficiency of those neural mechanisms supporting both context and conflict processing, and that the effects of aging are not pervasive but rather interact with task context.
1002	symbolic	2012	de Haan, W; Mott, K; van Straaten, ECW; Scheltens, P; Stam, CJ	Activity Dependent Degeneration Explains Hub Vulnerability in Alzheimer's Disease	PLOS COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY	Brain connectivity studies have revealed that highly connected 'hub' regions are particularly vulnerable to Alzheimer pathology: they show marked amyloid-beta deposition at an early stage. Recently, excessive local neuronal activity has been shown to increase amyloid deposition. In this study we use a computational model to test the hypothesis that hub regions possess the highest level of activity and that hub vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease is due to this feature. Cortical brain regions were modeled as neural masses, each describing the average activity (spike density and spectral power) of a large number of interconnected excitatory and inhibitory neurons. The large-scale network consisted of 78 neural masses, connected according to a human DTI-based cortical topology. Spike density and spectral power were positively correlated with structural and functional node degrees, confirming the high activity of hub regions, also offering a possible explanation for high resting state Default Mode Network activity. 'Activity dependent degeneration' (ADD) was simulated by lowering synaptic strength as a function of the spike density of the main excitatory neurons, and compared to random degeneration. Resulting structural and functional network changes were assessed with graph theoretical analysis. Effects of ADD included oscillatory slowing, loss of spectral power and long-range synchronization, hub vulnerability, and disrupted functional network topology. Observed transient increases in spike density and functional connectivity match reports in Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) patients, and may not be compensatory but pathological. In conclusion, the assumption of excessive neuronal activity leading to degeneration provides a possible explanation for hub vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease, supported by the observed relation between connectivity and activity and the reproduction of several neurophysiologic hallmarks. The insight that neuronal activity might play a causal role in Alzheimer's disease can have implications for early detection and interventional strategies.
1003	symbolic	2009	Marsella, SC; Gratch, J	EMA: A process model of appraisal dynamics	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	A computational model of emotion must explain both the rapid dynamics of some emotional reactions as well as the slower responses that follow deliberation. This is often addressed by positing multiple levels of appraisal processes such as fast pattern directed vs. slower deliberative appraisals. In our view, this confuses appraisal with inference. Rather, we argue for a single and automatic appraisal process that operates over a person's interpretation of their relationship to the environment. Dynamics arise from perceptual and inferential processes operating on this interpretation (including deliberative and reactive processes). This article discusses current developments in a computational model of emotion processes and illustrates how a single-level model of appraisal obviates a multi-level approach within the context of modeling a naturalistic emotional situation. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1004	symbolic	2002	Tyler, LK; deMornay-Davies, P; Anokhina, R; Longworth, C; Randall, B; Marslen-Wilson, WD	Dissociations in processing past tense morphology: Neuropathology and behavioral studies	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Neuropsychological research showing that the regular ("jump-jumped'') and irregular ("drive/drove'') past tense inflectional morphology can dissociate following brain damage has been important in testing claims about the cognitive and neural status of linguistic rules. These dissociations have been interpreted as evidence for two different computational systems-a rule-based system underlying the processing of regulars and the irregulars being individually listed in the mental lexicon. In contrast, connectionist accounts claim that these dissociations can be modeled within a single system. Combining behavioral data from patients with detailed information about their neuropathology can, in principle, provide strong constraints on accounts of the past tense. In this study, we tested five nonfluent aphasic patients, all of whom had extensive left hemisphere (LH) damage involving the left inferior frontal gyrus and underlying structures, and four patients with semantic deficits following herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) who had extensive damage to the inferior temporal cortex. These patients were tested in experiments probing past tense processing. In a large priming study, the nonfluent patients showed no priming for the regular past tense but significant priming for the irregulars (whereas controls show priming for both). In contrast, the HSE patients showed significantly impaired performance for the irregulars in an elicitation task. These patterns of behavioral data and neuropathology suggest that two separable but interdependent systems underlie processing of the regular and irregular past tense.
1005	symbolic	2014	Ullsperger, M; Danielmeier, C; Jocham, G	NEUROPHYSIOLOGY OF PERFORMANCE MONITORING AND ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	PHYSIOLOGICAL REVIEWS	Successful goal-directed behavior requires not only correct action selection, planning, and execution but also the ability to flexibly adapt behavior when performance problems occur or the environment changes. A prerequisite for determining the necessity, type, and magnitude of adjustments is to continuously monitor the course and outcome of one's actions. Feedback-control loops correcting deviations from intended states constitute a basic functional principle of adaptation at all levels of the nervous system. Here, we review the neurophysiology of evaluating action course and outcome with respect to their valence, i.e., reward and punishment, and initiating short-and long-term adaptations, learning, and decisions. Based on studies in humans and other mammals, we outline the physiological principles of performance monitoring and subsequent cognitive, motivational, autonomic, and behavioral adaptation and link them to the underlying neuroanatomy, neurochemistry, psychological theories, and computational models. We provide an overview of invasive and noninvasive systemic measures, such as electrophysiological, neuroimaging, and lesion data. We describe how a wide network of brain areas encompassing frontal cortices, basal ganglia, thalamus, and monoaminergic brain stem nuclei detects and evaluates deviations of actual from predicted states indicating changed action costs or outcomes. This information is used to learn and update stimulus and action values, guide action selection, and recruit adaptive mechanisms that compensate errors and optimize goal achievement.
1006	symbolic	2010	Stocco, A; Lebiere, C; Anderson, JR	Conditional Routing of Information to the Cortex: A Model of the Basal Ganglia's Role in Cognitive Coordination	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The basal ganglia play a central role in cognition and are involved in such general functions as action selection and reinforcement learning. Here, we present a model exploring the hypothesis that the basal ganglia implement a conditional information-routing system. The system directs the transmission of cortical signals between pairs of regions by manipulating separately the selection of sources and destinations of information transfers. We suggest that such a mechanism provides an account for several cognitive functions of the basal ganglia. The model also incorporates a possible mechanism by which subsequent transfers of information control the release of dopamine. This signal is used to produce novel stimulus-response associations by internalizing transferred cortical representations in the striatum. We discuss how the model is related to production systems and cognitive architectures. A series of simulations is presented to illustrate how the model can perform simple stimulus response tasks, develop automatic behaviors, and provide an account of impairments in Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases.
1007	symbolic	2006	De Pisapia, N; Braver, TS	A model of dual control mechanisms through anterior cingulate and prefrontal cortex interactions	NEUROCOMPUTING	A computational model is presented that describes dual mechanisms of cognitive control through interactions between the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). One mechanism, reactive control, consists in the transient activation of PFC, based on conflict detected in ACC over a short time-scale. The second mechanism, proactive control, consists in the sustained active maintenance of task-set information in a separate PFC module, driven by long time-scale conflict detected in a separate ACC unit. The computational function of the first mechanism is to suppress the activation of task-irrelevant information just prior to when it could interfere with responding. The role of the second mechanism is to prime task-relevant processing pathways prior to stimulus-onset, in a preparatory fashion. The model provided an excellent fit to both the behavioral and brain imaging data from a previous detailed empirical study on humans performing the color-word version of the Stroop task. The model captured changes in reaction times across conditions, accuracy, and transient and sustained activity dynamics within lateral PFC and ACC. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1008	symbolic	2006	Pearce, MT; Wiggins, GA	Expectation in melody: The influence of context and learning	MUSIC PERCEPTION	THE IMPLICATION-REALIZATION (IR) theory (Narmour, 1990) posits two cognitive systems involved in the generation of melodic expectations: The first consists of a limited number of symbolic rules that are held to be innate and universal; the second reflects the top-down influences of acquired stylistic knowledge. Aspects of both systems have been implemented as quantitative models in research which has yielded empirical support for both components of the theory (Cuddy & Lunny, 1995; Krumhansl, 1995a, 1995b; Schellenberg, 1996, 1997). However, there is also evidence that the implemented bottom-up rules constitute too inflexible a model to account for the influence of the musical experience of the listener and the melodic context in which expectations are elicited. A theory is presented, according to which both bottom-up and top-down descriptions of observed patterns of melodic expectation may be accounted for in terms of the induction of statistical regularities in existing musical repertoires. A computational model that embodies this theory is developed and used to reanalyze existing experimental data on melodic expectancy. The results of three experiments with increasingly complex melodic stimuli demonstrate that this model is capable of accounting for listeners' expectations as well as or better than the two-factor model of Schellenberg (1997).
1009	symbolic	1994	RICKARD, TC; HEALY, AF; BOURNE, LE	ON THE COGNITIVE STRUCTURE OF BASIC ARITHMETIC SKILLS - OPERATION, ORDER, AND SYMBOL TRANSFER EFFECTS	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	In 2 experiments, college Ss practiced extensively on single-digit multiplication and division problems (e.g., }}}} = 6 x 9; 42 = }}}} x 6) and were tested on both practice problems and several altered versions of those problems, which were constructed by changing the required operation, operand order, or arithmetic symbol.  There was strong positive transfer to test problems that had exactly the same elements (the numbers and the required operation) as a practice problem, regardless of whether other factors such as operand order or symbol were changed, but little if any positive transfer to test problems that did not have the same elements as a practice problem.  An identical elements framework is used to interpret these results and implications for existing computational models of arithmetic fact retrieval and for the development of arithmetic skill are discussed.
1010	symbolic	1994	KEANE, MT; LEDGEWAY, T; DUFF, S	CONSTRAINTS ON ANALOGICAL MAPPING - A COMPARISON OF 3 MODELS	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Three theories of analogy have been proposed that are supported by computational models and data from experiments on human analogical abilities.  In this article we show how these theories can be unified within a common metatheoretical framework that distinguishes among levels of informational, behavioral, and hardware constraints.  This framework clarifies the distinctions among three computational models in the literature:  the Analogical Constraint Mapping Engine (ACME), the Structure-Mapping Engine (SME), and the Incremental Analogy Machine (IAM).  We then go on to develop a methodology for the comparative testing of these models.  In two different manipulations of an analogical mapping task we compare the results of computational experiments with these these models against the results of psychological experiments.  In the first experiment we show that increasing the number of similar elements in two analogical domains decreases the response time taken to reach the correct mapping for an analogy problem.  In the second psychological experiment we find that the order in which the elements of the two domains are presented has significant facilitative effects on the ease of analogical mapping.  Of the three models, only IAM embodies behavioral constraints and predicts both of these results.  Finally, the immediate implications of these results for analogy research are discussed, along with the wider implications the research has for cognitive science methodology.
1011	symbolic	2007	Blais, C; Robidoux, S; Risko, EF; Besner, D	Item-specific adaptation and the conflict-monitoring hypothesis: A computational model	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	M. M. Botvinick, T. S. Braver, D. M. Barch, C. S. Carter, and J. D. Cohen (2001) implemented their conflict-monitoring hypothesis of cognitive control in a series of computational models. The authors of the current article first demonstrate that M. M. Borvinick et al.'s (2001) conflict-monitoring Stroop model fails to simulate L. L. Jacoby, D. S. Lindsay, and S. Hessels's (2003) report of an item-specific proportion-congruent (ISPC) effect in the Stroop task. The authors then implement a variant of M. M. Botvinick et al.'s model based on the assumption that control must be able to operate at the item level. This model successfully simulates the ISPC effect. In addition, the model provides an alternative to M. M. Botvinick et al.'s explanation of the list-level proportion-congruent effect in terms of an ISPC effect. Implications of the present modeling effort are discussed.
1012	symbolic	2013	Wiecki, TV; Frank, MJ	A Computational Model of Inhibitory Control in Frontal Cortex and Basal Ganglia	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Planning and executing volitional actions in the face of conflicting habitual responses is a critical aspect of human behavior. At the core of the interplay between these 2 control systems lies an override mechanism that can suppress the habitual action selection process and allow executive control to take over. Here, we construct a neural circuit model informed by behavioral and electrophysiological data collected on various response inhibition paradigms. This model extends a well-established model of action selection in the basal ganglia by including a frontal executive control network that integrates information about sensory input and task rules to facilitate well-informed decision making via the oculomotor system. Our simulations of the anti-saccade, Simon, and saccade-override tasks ensue in conflict between a prepotent and controlled response that causes the network to pause action selection via projections to the subthalamic nucleus. Our model reproduces key behavioral and electrophysiological patterns and their sensitivity to lesions and pharmacological manipulations. Finally, we show how this network can be extended to include the inferior frontal cortex to simulate key qualitative patterns of global response inhibition demands as required in the stop-signal task.
1013	symbolic	2006	Larson, CL; Schaefer, HS; Siegle, GJ; Jackson, CAB; Anderle, MJ; Davidson, RJ	Fear is fast in phobic individuals: Amygdala activation in response to fear-relevant stimuli	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	Background. Two core characteristics of pathologic fear are its rapid onset and resistance to cognitive regulation. We hypothesized that activation of the amygdala early in the presentation of fear-relevant visual stimuli would distinguish phobics from nonphobics. Methods: Chronometry of amygdala activation to phobia-relevant pictures was assessed in 13 spider phobics and 14 nonphobics using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Results. Blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) responses in the amygdala early in picture processing consistently differentiated between phobic and nonphobic subjects, as well as between phobogenic and nonphobogenic stimuli among phobics. Furthermore, amygdalar BOLD responses associated with timing but not magnitude of activation predicted affective responses to phobogenic stimuli. Computational modeling procedures were used to identify patterns of neural activation in the amygdala that could yield the observed BOLD data. These data suggest that phobic responses were characterized by strong but brief amygdala responses, whereas nonphobic responses were weaker and more sustained. Conclusions: Results are discussed in the context of the amygdala's role in rapid threat detection and the vigilance-avoidance hypothesis of anxiety. These data highlight the importance of examining the neural substrates of the immediate impact of phobogenic stimuli for understanding pathological fear.
