1	bayesian	2000	Stanovich, KE; West, RF	Individual differences in reasoning: Implications for the rationality debate?	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Much research in the last two decades has demonstrated that human responses deviate from the performance deemed normative according to various models of decision making and rational judgment (e.g., the basic axioms of utility theory). This gap between the normative and the descriptive can be interpreted as indicating systematic irrationalities in human cognition. However, four alternative interpretations preserve the assumption that human behavior and cognition is largely, rational. These posit that the gap is due to (1) performance errors, (2) computational limitations, (3) the wrong norm being applied by the experimenter, and (4) a different construal of the task by the subject. In the debates about the liability of these alternative explanations, attention has been focused too narrowly, on the modal response. In a series of experiments involving most of the classic tasks in the heuristics and biases literature, we have examined the implications of individual differences in performance for each of the four explanations of the normative/descriptive gap. Performance errors are a minor factor in the gap; computational limitations underlie non-normative responding on several tasks, particularly those that involve some type of cognitive decontextualization. Unexpected patterns of covariance can suggest when the wrong norm is being applied to a task or when an alternative construal of the task should be considered appropriate.
2	bayesian	2006	Poldrack, RA	Can cognitive processes be inferred from neuroimaging data?	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	There is much interest currently in using functional neuroimaging techniques to understand better the nature of cognition. One particular practice that has become common is 'reverse inference', by which the engagement of a particular cognitive process is inferred from the activation of a particular brain region. Such inferences are not deductively valid, but can still provide some information. Using a Bayesian analysis of the BrainMap neuroimaging database, I characterize the amount of additional evidence in favor of the engagement of a cognitive process that can be offered by a reverse inference. Its usefulness is particularly limited by the selectivity of activation in the region of interest. I argue that cognitive neuroscientists should be circumspect in the use of reverse inference, particularly when selectivity of the region in question cannot be established or is known to be weak.
3	bayesian	2011	Tenenbaum, JB; Kemp, C; Griffiths, TL; Goodman, ND	How to Grow a Mind: Statistics, Structure, and Abstraction	SCIENCE	In coming to understand the world-in learning concepts, acquiring language, and grasping causal relations-our minds make inferences that appear to go far beyond the data available. How do we do it? This review describes recent approaches to reverse-engineering human learning and cognitive development and, in parallel, engineering more humanlike machine learning systems. Computational models that perform probabilistic inference over hierarchies of flexibly structured representations can address some of the deepest questions about the nature and origins of human thought: How does abstract knowledge guide learning and reasoning from sparse data? What forms does our knowledge take, across different domains and tasks? And how is that abstract knowledge itself acquired?
4	bayesian	2001	Tenebaum, JB; Griffiths, TL	Generalization, similarity, and Bayesian inference	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Shepard has argued that a universal law should govern generalization across different domains of perception and cognition, as well as across organisms from different species or even different planets. Starting with some basic assumptions about natural kinds, he derived an exponential decay function as the form of the universal generalization gradient, which accords strikingly well with a wide range of empirical data. However, his original formulation applied only to the ideal case of generalization from a single encountered stimulus to a single novel stimulus, and for stimuli that can be represented as points in a continuous metric psychological space. Here we recast Shepard's theory in a more general Bayesian framework and show how this naturally extends his approach to the more realistic situation of generalizing from multiple consequential stimuli with arbitrary representational structure. Our framework also subsumes a version of Tversky's set-theoretic model of similarity, which is conventionally thought of as the primary alternative to Shepard's continuous metric space model of similarity and generalization. This unification allows us not only to draw deep parallels between the set-theoretic and spatial approaches, but also to significantly advance the explanatory power of set-theoretic models.
5	bayesian	1997	Myung, IJ; Pitt, MA	Applying Occam's razor in modeling cognition: A Bayesian approach	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	In mathematical modeling of cognition, it is important to have well;justified criteria for choosing among differing explanations (i.e,, models) of observed data. This paper introduces a Bayesian model selection approach that formalizes Occam's razor, choosing the simplest model that describes the data well. The choice of a model is carried out by taking into account not only the traditional model selection criteria (i.e., a model's fit to the data and the number of parameters) but also the extension of the parameter space, and, most importantly, the functional form of the model (i.e., the way in which the parameters are combined in the model's equation). An advantage of the approach is that it can be applied to the comparison of non-nested models as well as nested ones. Application examples are presented and implications of the results for evaluating models of cognition are discussed.
6	bayesian	1991	ANDERSON, JR	IS HUMAN COGNITION ADAPTIVE	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Can the output of human cognition be predicted from the assumption that it is an optimal response to the information-processing demands of the environment?  A methodology called rational analysis is described for deriving predictions about cognitive phenomena using optimization assumptions.  The predictions flow from the statistical structure of the environment and not the assumed structure of the mind.  Bayesian inference is used, assuming that people start with a weak prior model of the world which they integrate with experience to develop stronger models of specific aspects of the world.  Cognitive performance maximizes the difference between the expected gain and cost of mental effort.  (1) Memory performance can be predicted on the assumption that retrieval seeks a maximal trade-off between the probability of finding the relevant memories and the effort required to do so; in (2) categorization performance there is a similar trade-off between accuracy in predicting object features and the cost of hypothesis formation; in (3) causal inference the trade-off is between accuracy in predicting future events and the cost of hypothesis formation; and in (4) problem solving it is between the probability of achieving goals and the cost of both external and mental problem-solving search.  The implemention of these rational prescriptions in neurally plausible architecture is also discussed.
7	bayesian	2002	Redlawsk, DP	Hot cognition or cool consideration? Testing the effects of motivated reasoning on political decision making	JOURNAL OF POLITICS	Researchers attempting to understand how citizens process political information have advanced motivated reasoning to explain the joint role of affect and cognition. The prominence of affect suggests that all social information processing is affectively charged and prone to biases. This article makes use of a unique data set collected using a dynamic information board experiment to test important effects of motivated reasoning. In particular, affective biases should cause citizens to take longer processing information incongruent with their existing affect and such biases should also direct search for new information about candidates. Somewhat perversely, motivated reasoners may actually increase their support of a positively evaluated candidate upon learning new negatively evaluated information. Findings are reported that support all of these expectations. Additional analysis shows that these affective biases may easily lead to lower quality decision making, leading to a direct challenge to the notion of voters as rational Bayesian updaters.
8	bayesian	2010	Griffiths, TL; Chater, N; Kemp, C; Perfors, A; Tenenbaum, JB	Probabilistic models of cognition: exploring representations and inductive biases	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Cognitive science aims to reverse-engineer the mind, and many of the engineering challenges the mind faces involve induction. The probabilistic approach to modeling cognition begins by identifying ideal solutions to these inductive problems. Mental processes are then modeled using algorithms for approximating these solutions, and neural processes are viewed as mechanisms for implementing these algorithms, with the result being a top-down analysis of cognition starting with the function of cognitive processes. Typical connectionist models, by contrast, follow a bottom-up approach, beginning with a characterization of neural mechanisms and exploring what macro-level functional phenomena might emerge. We argue that the top-down approach yields greater flexibility for exploring the representations and inductive biases that underlie human cognition.
9	bayesian	2005	Rouder, JN; Lu, J	An introduction to Bayesian hierarchical models with an application in the theory of signal detection	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Although many nonlinear models of cognition have been proposed in the past 50 years, there has been little consideration of corresponding statistical techniques for their analysis. In analyses with nonlinear models, unmodeled variability from the selection of items or participants may lead to asymptotically biased estimation. This asymptotic bias, in turn, renders inference problematic. We show, for example, that a signal detection analysis of recognition memory data leads to asymptotic underestimation of sensitivity. To eliminate asymptotic bias, we advocate hierarchical models in which participant variability, item variability, and measurement error are modeled simultaneously. By accounting for multiple sources of variability, hierarchical models yield consistent and accurate estimates of participant and item effects in recognition memory. This article is written in tutorial format; we provide an introduction to Bayesian statistics, hierarchical modeling, and Markov chain Monte Carlo computational techniques.
10	bayesian	2004	Krueger, JI; Funder, DC	Towards a balanced social psychology: Causes, consequences, and cures for the problem-seeking approach to social behavior and cognition	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Mainstream social psychology focuses on how people characteristically violate norms of action through social misbehaviors such as conformity with false majority judgments, destructive obedience, and failures to help those in need. Likewise, they are seen to violate norms of reasoning through cognitive errors such as misuse of social information, self-enhancement, and an over-readiness to attribute dispositional characteristics. The causes of this negative research emphasis include the apparent informativeness of norm violation, the status of good behavior and judgment as unconfirmable null hypotheses, and the allure of counter-intuitive findings. The shortcomings of this orientation include frequently erroneous imputations of error, findings of mutually contradictory errors, incoherent interpretations of error, an inability to explain the sources of behavioral or cognitive achievement, and the inhibition of generalized theory. Possible remedies include increased attention to the complete range of behavior and judgmental accomplishment, analytic reforms emphasizing effect sizes and Bayesian inference, and a theoretical paradigm able to account for both the sources of accomplishment and of error. A more balanced social psychology would yield not only a more positive view of human nature, but also an improved understanding of the bases of good behavior and accurate judgment, coherent explanations of occasional lapses, and theoretically grounded suggestions for improvement.
11	bayesian	2008	Uleman, JS; Saribay, SA; Gonzalez, CM	Spontaneous inferences, implicit impressions, and implicit theories	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY	People make social inferences without intentions awareness or effort, i.e., spontaneously. We review recent findings on spontaneous social inferences (especially traits, goals, and causes) and closely related phenomena. We then describe current thinking on some of the most relevant processes, implicit knowledge, and theories. These include automatic and controlled processes and their interplay; embodied cognition, including mimicry; and associative versus rule-based processes. Implicit knowledge includes adult folk theories, conditions of personhood, self-knowledge to simulate others, and cultural and social class differences. Implicit theories concern Bayesian networks, recent attribution research, and questions about the utility of the disposition-situation dichotomy. Developmental research provides new insights. Spontaneous social inferences include a growing array of phenomena, but they have been insufficiently linked to other phenomena and theories. We hope the links suggested in this review begin to remedy this.
12	bayesian	2007	Axelrad, DA; Bellinger, DC; Ryan, LM; Woodruff, TJ	Dose-response relationship of prenatal mercury exposure and IQ: An integrative analysis of epidemiologic data	ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH PERSPECTIVES	BACKGROUND: Prenatal exposure to mercury has been associated with adverse childhood neurologic outcomes in epidemiologic studies. Dose-response information for this relationship is useful for estimating benefits of reduced mercury exposure. OBJECTIVES: We estimated a dose-response relationship between maternal mercury body burden and subsequent childhood decrements in intelligence quotient (IQ), using a Bayesian hierarchical model to integrate data from three epidemiologic studies. METHODS: Inputs to the model consist of dose-response coefficients from studies conducted in the Faroe Islands, New Zealand, and the Seychelles Islands. IQ coefficients were available from previous work for the latter two studies, and a coefficient for the Faroe Islands study was estimated from three IQ subtests. Other tests of cognition/achievement were included in the hierarchical model to obtain more accurate estimates of study-to-study and end point-to-end point variability. RESULTS: We find a central estimate of -0.18 IQ points (95% confidence interval, -0.378 to -0.009) for each parts per million increase of maternal hair mercury, similar to the estimates for both the Faroe Islands and Seychelles studies, and lower in magnitude than the estimate for the New Zealand study. Sensitivity analyses produce similar results, with the IQ coefficient central estimate ranging from -0.13 to -0.25. CONCLUSIONS: IQ is a useful end point for estimating neurodevelopmental effects, but may not fully represent cognitive deficits associated with mercury exposure, and does not represent deficits related to attention and motor skills. Nevertheless, the integrated IQ coefficient provides a more robust description of the dose-response relationship for prenatal mercury exposure and cognitive functioning than results of any single study.
13	bayesian	2008	Griffiths, TL; Kemp, C; Tenenbaum, JB	Bayesian Models of Cognition	CAMBRIDGE HANDBOOK OF COMPUTATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY	0
14	bayesian	2007	Parmenter, BA; Weinstock-Guttman, B; Garg, N; Munschauer, F; Benedict, RHB	Screening for cognitive impairment in multiple sclerosis using the Symbol Digit Modalities Test	MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS	Cognitive impairment is common in multiple sclerosis (MS), yet difficult to detect during routine neurologic examination. Therefore, brief screening tests that identify patients who may benefit from a more thorough assessment or treatment are needed. We investigated the utility of the Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT) as a screen for cognitive dysfunction because it can be administered and scored in about 5 minutes. One hundred MS patients and 50 healthy controls, matched on demographic variables, participated in the study. Examination procedures included the neuropsychological (NP) tests included in the Minimal Assessment of Cognitive Function in MS (MACFIMS) battery. Patients were considered impaired if they performed one and a half standard deviations below controls on two or more MACFIMS variables, excluding the SDMT. Bayesian statistics showed that a total score of 55 or lower on the SDMT accurately categorized 72% of patients, yielding sensitivity of 0.82, specificity of 0.60, positive predictive value (PPV) of 0.71, and negative predictive value (NPV) of 0.73. These results suggest that the effectiveness of the SDMT as a screen for cognitive impairment in MS is roughly equal to that of other psychometric and questionnaire methods.
15	bayesian	2007	Kilner, JM; Friston, KJ; Frith, CD	The mirror-neuron system: a Baynesian perspective	NEUROREPORT	Is it possible to understand the intentions of other people by simply observing their movements? Many neuroscientists believe that this ability depends on the brain's mirror-neuron system, which provides a direct link between action and observation. Precisely how intentions can be inferred through movement-observation, however, has provoked much debate. One problem in inferring the cause of an observed action, is that the problem is ill-posed because identical movements can be made when performing different actions with different goals. Here we suggest that this problem is solved by the mirror-neuron system using predictive coding on the basis of a statistical approach known as empirical Bayesian inference. This means that the most likely cause of an observed movement can be inferred by minimizing the prediction error at all cortical levels that are engaged during movement observation. This account identifies a precise role for the mirror-neuron system in our ability to infer intentions from observed movement and outlines possible computational mechanisms.
16	bayesian	2011	Busemeyer, JR; Pothos, EM; Franco, R; Trueblood, JS	A Quantum Theoretical Explanation for Probability Judgment Errors	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A quantum probability model is introduced and used to explain human probability judgment errors including the conjunction and disjunction fallacies, averaging effects, unpacking effects, and order effects on inference. On the one hand, quantum theory is similar to other categorization and memory models of cognition in that it relies on vector spaces defined by features and similarities between vectors to determine probability judgments. On the other hand, quantum probability theory is a generalization of Bayesian probability theory because it is based on a set of (von Neumann) axioms that relax some of the classic (Kolmogorov) axioms. The quantum model is compared and contrasted with other competing explanations for these judgment errors, including the anchoring and adjustment model for probability judgments. In the quantum model, a new fundamental concept in cognition is advanced the compatibility versus incompatibility of questions and the effect this can have on the sequential order of judgments. We conclude that quantum information-processing principles provide a viable and promising new way to understand human judgment and reasoning.
17	bayesian	2006	Yoshida, W; Ishii, S	Resolution of uncertainty in prefrontal cortex	NEURON	Making optimal decisions in the face of uncertain or incomplete information arises as a common problem in everyday behavior, but the neural processes underlying this ability remain poorly understood. A typical case is navigation, in which a subject has to search for a known goal from an unknown location. Navigating under uncertain conditions requires making decisions on the basis of the current belief about location and updating that belief based on incoming information. Here, we use functional magnetic resonance imaging during a maze navigation task to study neural activity relating to the resolution of uncertainty as subjects make sequential decisions to reach a goal. We show that distinct regions of prefrontal cortex are engaged in specific computational functions that are well described by a Bayesian model of decision making. This permits efficient goal-oriented navigation and provides new insights into decision making by humans.
18	bayesian	2009	Baker, CL; Saxe, R; Tenenbaum, JB	Action understanding as inverse planning	COGNITION	Humans are adept at inferring the mental states underlying other agents' actions, such as goals, beliefs, desires, emotions and other thoughts. We propose a computational framework based on Bayesian inverse planning for modeling human action understanding. The framework represents an intuitive theory of intentional agents' behavior based on the principle of rationality: the expectation that agents will plan approximately rationally to achieve their goals, given their beliefs about the world. The mental states that caused an agent's behavior are inferred by inverting this model of rational planning using Bayesian inference, integrating the likelihood of the observed actions with the prior over mental states. This approach formalizes in precise probabilistic terms the essence of previous qualitative approaches to action understanding based on an "intentional stance" [Dennett, D. C. (1987). The intentional stance. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press] or a "teleological stance" [Gergely, G., Nadasdy, Z., Csibra, G., & Biro, S. (1995). Taking the intentional stance at 12 months of age. Cognition, 56,165-193]. In three psychophysical experiments using animated stimuli of agents moving in simple mazes, we assess how well different inverse planning models based on different goal priors can predict human goal inferences. The results provide quantitative evidence for an approximately rational inference mechanism in human goal inference within our simplified stimulus paradigm, and for the flexible nature of goal representations that human observers can adopt, We discuss the implications of our experimental results for human action understanding in real-world contexts, and suggest how Our framework might be extended to capture other kinds of mental state inferences. such as inferences about beliefs, or inferring whether an entity is an intentional agent. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
19	bayesian	2010	Sanborn, AN; Griffiths, TL; Navarro, DJ	Rational Approximations to Rational Models: Alternative Algorithms for Category Learning	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Rational models of cognition typically consider the abstract computational problems posed by the environment, assuming that people are capable of optimally solving those problems. This differs from more traditional formal models of cognition, which focus on the psychological processes responsible for behavior. A basic challenge for rational models is thus explaining how optimal solutions can be approximated by psychological processes. We outline a general strategy for answering this question, namely to explore the psychological plausibility of approximation algorithms developed in computer science and statistics. In particular, we argue that Monte Carlo methods provide a source of rational process models that connect optimal solutions to psychological processes. We support this argument through a detailed example. applying this approach to Anderson's (1990, 1991) rational model of categorization (RMC), which involves a particularly challenging computational problem. Drawing on a connection between the RMC and ideas from nonparametric Bayesian statistics, we propose 2 alternative algorithms for approximate inference in this model. The algorithms we consider include Gibbs sampling. a procedure appropriate when all stimuli are presented simultaneously, and particle filters, which sequentially approximate the posterior distribution with a small number of samples that are updated as new data become available. Applying these algorithms to several existing datasets shows that a particle filter with a single particle provides a good description of human inferences.
20	bayesian	2012	Bavelier, D; Green, CS; Pouget, A; Schrater, P	Brain Plasticity Through the Life Span: Learning to Learn and Action Video Games	ANNUAL REVIEW OF NEUROSCIENCE, VOL 35	The ability of the human brain to learn is exceptional. Yet, learning is typically quite specific to the exact task used during training, a limiting factor for practical applications such as rehabilitation, workforce training, or education. The possibility of identifying training regimens that have a broad enough impact to transfer to a variety of tasks is thus highly appealing. This work reviews how complex training environments such as action video game play may actually foster brain plasticity and learning. This enhanced learning capacity, termed learning to learn, is considered in light of its computational requirements and putative neural mechanisms.
21	bayesian	1996	Gigerenzer, G	The psychology of good judgment: Frequency formats and simple algorithms	MEDICAL DECISION MAKING	Mind and environment evolve in tandem-almost a platitude. Much of judgment and decision making research, however, has compared cognition to standard statistical models, rather than to how well it is adapted to its environment. The author argues two points. First, cognitive algorithms are tuned to certain information formats, most likely to those that humans have encountered during their evolutionary history. In particular, Bayesian computations are simpler when the information is in a frequency format than when it is in a probability format. The author investigates whether frequency formats can make physicians reason more often the Bayesian way. Second, cognitive algorithms need to operate under constraints of limited time, knowledge, and computational power, and they need to exploit the structures of their environments. The author describes a fast and frugal algorithm, Take The Best, that violates standard principles of rational inference but can be as accurate as sophisticated ''optimal'' models for diagnostic inference.
22	bayesian	2008	Shiffrin, R; Lee, M; Kim, W; Wagenmakers, EJ	A Survey of Model Evaluation Approaches With a Tutorial on Hierarchical Bayesian Methods	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article reviews current methods for evaluating models in the cognitive sciences, including theoretically based approaches, such as Bayes factors and minimum description length measures; simulation approaches, including model mimicry evaluations; and practical approaches, such as validation and generalization measures. This article argues that, although often useful in specific settings, most of these approaches are limited in their ability to give a general assessment of models. This article argues that hierarchical methods, generally, and hierarchical Bayesian methods, specifically, can provide a more thorough evaluation of models in the cognitive sciences. This article presents two worked examples of hierarchical Bayesian analyses to demonstrate how the approach addresses key questions of descriptive adequacy, parameter interference, prediction, and generalization in principled and coherent ways.
23	bayesian	1999	Gerber, A; Green, D	Misperceptions about perceptual bias	ANNUAL REVIEW OF POLITICAL SCIENCE	Do people assimilate new information in an efficient and unbiased manner-that is, do they update prior beliefs in accordance with Bayes' rule? Or are they selective in the way that they gather and absorb new information? Although many classic studies in political science and psychology contend that people resist discordant information, more recent research has tended to call the selective perception hypothesis into question. We synthesize the literatures on biased assimilation and belief polarization using a formal model that encompasses both Bayesian and biased learning. The analysis reveals (a) the conditions under which these phenomena may be consistent with Bayesian learning, (b) the methodological inadequacy of certain research designs that fail to control for preferences or prior information, and (c) the limited support that exists for the more extreme variants of the selective perception hypothesis.
24	bayesian	2012	Bowers, JS; Davis, CJ	Bayesian Just-So Stories in Psychology and Neuroscience	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	According to Bayesian theories in psychology and neuroscience, minds and brains are (near) optimal in solving a wide range of tasks. We challenge this view and argue that more traditional, non-Bayesian approaches are more promising. We make 3 main arguments. First, we show that the empirical evidence for Bayesian theories in psychology is weak. This weakness relates to the many arbitrary ways that priors, likelihoods, and utility functions can be altered in order to account for the data that are obtained, making the models unfalsifiable. It further relates to the fact that Bayesian theories are rarely better at predicting data compared with alternative (and simpler) non-Bayesian theories. Second, we show that the empirical evidence for Bayesian theories in neuroscience is weaker still. There are impressive mathematical analyses showing how populations of neurons could compute in a Bayesian manner but little or no evidence that they do. Third, we challenge the general scientific approach that characterizes Bayesian theorizing in cognitive science. A common premise is that theories in psychology should largely be constrained by a rational analysis of what the mind ought to do. We question this claim and argue that many of the important constraints come from biological, evolutionary, and processing (algorithmic) considerations that have no adaptive relevance to the problem per se. In our view, these factors have contributed to the development of many Bayesian "just so" stories in psychology and neuroscience; that is, mathematical analyses of cognition that can be used to explain almost any behavior as optimal.
25	bayesian	2013	Pouget, A; Beck, JM; Ma, WJ; Latham, PE	Probabilistic brains: knowns and unknowns	NATURE NEUROSCIENCE	There is strong behavioral and physiological evidence that the brain both represents probability distributions and performs probabilistic inference. Computational neuroscientists have started to shed light on how these probabilistic representations and computations might be implemented in neural circuits. One particularly appealing aspect of these theories is their generality: they can be used to model a wide range of tasks, from sensory processing to high-level cognition. To date, however, these theories have only been applied to very simple tasks. Here we discuss the challenges that will emerge as researchers start focusing their efforts on real-life computations, with a focus on probabilistic learning, structural learning and approximate inference.
26	bayesian	2010	Kruschke, JK	What to believe: Bayesian methods for data analysis	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Although Bayesian models of mind have attracted great interest from cognitive scientists, Bayesian methods for data analysis have not. This article reviews several advantages of Bayesian data analysis over traditional null-hypothesis significance testing. Bayesian methods provide tremendous flexibility for data analytic models and yield rich information about parameters that can be used cumulatively across progressive experiments. Because Bayesian statistical methods can be applied to any data, regardless of the type of cognitive model (Bayesian or otherwise) that motivated the data collection, Bayesian methods for data analysis will continue to be appropriate even if Bayesian models of mind lose their appeal.
27	bayesian	2001	Nadkarni, S; Shenoy, PP	A Bayesian network approach to making inferences in causal maps	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF OPERATIONAL RESEARCH	The main goal of this paper is to describe a new graphical structure called 'Bayesian causal maps' to represent and analyze domain knowledge of experts. A Bayesian causal map is a causal map, i.e., a network-based representation of an expert's cognition. It is also a Bayesian network, i.e., a graphical representation of an expert's knowledge based on probability theory. Bayesian causal maps enhance the capabilities of causal maps in many ways. We describe how the textual analysis procedure for constructing causal maps can be modified to construct Bayesian causal maps, and we illustrate it using a causal map of a marketing expert in the context of a product development decision. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
28	bayesian	2009	Doll, BB; Jacobs, WJ; Sanfey, AG; Frank, MJ	Instructional control of reinforcement learning: A behavioral and neurocomputational investigation	BRAIN RESEARCH	Humans learn how to behave directly through environmental experience and indirectly through rules and instructions. Behavior analytic research has shown that instructions can control behavior, even when such behavior leads to sub-optimal outcomes (Hayes, S (Ed) 1989. Rule-governed behavior: cognition, contingencies, and instructional control. Plenum Press.). Here we examine the control of behavior through instructions in a reinforcement learning task known to depend on striatal dopaminergic function. Participants selected between probabilistically reinforced stimuli, and were (incorrectly) told that a specific stimulus had the highest (or lowest) reinforcement probability Despite experience to the contrary, instructions drove choice behavior. We present neural network simulations that capture the interactions between instruction-driven and reinforcement-driven behavior via two potential neural circuits one in which the striatum is inaccurately trained by instruction representations coming from prefrontal cortex/hippocampus (PFC/HC), and another in which the striatum learns the environmentally based reinforcement contingencies, but is "overridden" at decision output. Both models capture the core behavioral phenomena but, because they differ fundamentally on what is learned, make distinct predictions for subsequent behavioral and neuroimaging experiments. Finally, we attempt to distinguish between the proposed computational mechanisms governing instructed behavior by fitting a series of abstract "Q-learning" and Bayesian models to subject data. The best-fitting model supports one of the neural models, suggesting the existence of a "confirmation bias" in which the PFC/HC system trains the reinforcement system by amplifying outcomes that are consistent with instructions while diminishing inconsistent outcomes. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved
29	bayesian	2009	Said, CP; Sebe, N; Todorov, A	Structural Resemblance to Emotional Expressions Predicts Evaluation of Emotionally Neutral Faces	EMOTION	People make trait inferences based on facial appearance despite little evidence that these inferences accurately reflect personality. The authors tested the hypothesis that these inferences are driven in part by structural resemblance to emotional expressions. The authors first had participants judge emotionally neutral faces on a set of trait dimensions. The authors then submitted the face images to a Bayesian network classifier trained to detect emotional expressions. By using a classifier, the authors can show that neutral faces perceived to possess various personality traits contain objective resemblance to emotional expression. In general, neutral faces that are perceived to have positive valence resemble happiness, faces that are perceived to have negative valence resemble disgust and fear, and faces that are perceived to be threatening resemble anger. These results support the idea that trait inferences are in part the result of an overgeneralization of emotion recognition systems. Under this hypothesis, emotion recognition systems, which typically extract accurate information about a person's emotional state, are engaged during the perception of neutral faces that bear subtle resemblance to emotional expressions. These emotions could then be misattributed as traits.
30	bayesian	2008	Xu, F; Garcia, V	Intuitive statistics by 8-month-old infants	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Human learners make inductive inferences based on small amounts of data: we generalize from samples to populations and vice versa. The academic discipline of statistics formalizes these intuitive statistical inferences. What is the origin of this ability? We report six experiments investigating whether 8-month-old infants are "intuitive statisticians." Our results showed that, given a sample, the infants were able to make inferences about the population from which the sample had been drawn. Conversely, given information about the entire population of relatively small size, the infants were able to make predictions about the sample. Our findings provide evidence that infants possess a powerful mechanism for inductive learning, either using heuristics or basic principles of probability. This ability to make inferences based on samples or information about the population develops early and in the absence of schooling or explicit teaching. Human infants may be rational learners from very early in development.
31	bayesian	2009	Oaksford, M; Chater, N	Precis of Bayesian Rationality: The Probabilistic Approach to Human Reasoning	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	According to Aristotle, humans are the rational animal. The borderline between rationality and irrationality is fundamental to many aspects of human life including the law, mental health, and language interpretation. But what is it to be rational? One answer, deeply embedded in the Western intellectual tradition since ancient Greece, is that rationality concerns reasoning according to the rules of logic - the formal theory that specifies the inferential connections that hold with certainty between propositions. Piaget viewed logical reasoning as defining the end-point of cognitive development; and contemporary psychology of reasoning has focussed on comparing human reasoning against logical standards. Bayesian Rationality argues that rationality is defined instead by the ability to reason about uncertainty. Although people are typically poor at numerical reasoning about probability, human thought is sensitive to subtle patterns of qualitative Bayesian, probabilistic reasoning. In Chapters 1-4 of Bayesian Rationality (Oaksford & Chater 2007), the case is made that cognition in general, and human everyday reasoning in particular, is best viewed as solving probabilistic, rather than logical, inference problems. In Chapters 5-7 the psychology of "deductive" reasoning is tackled head-on: It is argued that purportedly "logical" reasoning problems, revealing apparently irrational behaviour, are better understood from a probabilistic point of view. Data from conditional reasoning, Wason's selection task, and syllogistic inference are captured by recasting these problems probabilistically. The probabilistic approach makes a variety of novel predictions which have been experimentally confirmed. The book considers the implications of this work, and the wider "probabilistic turn" in cognitive science and artificial intelligence, for understanding human rationality.
32	bayesian	2001	Shepard, RN	Perceptual-cognitive universals as reflections of the world	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The universality, invariance, and elegance of principles governing the universe may be reflected in principles of the minds that have evolved in that universe - provided that the mental principles are formulated with respect to the abstract spaces appropriate for the representation of biologically significant objects and their properties. (1) Positions and motions of objects conserve their shapes in the geometrically fullest and simplest way when represented as points and connecting geodesic paths in the six-dimensional manifold jointly determined by the Euclidean group of three-dimensional space and the symmetry group of each object. (2) Colors of objects attain constancy when represented as points in a three-dimensional vector space in which each variation in natural illumination is canceled by application of its inverse from the three-dimensional linear group of terrestrial transformations of the invariant solar source. (3) Kinds of objects support optimal generalization and categorization when represented, in an evolutionarily-shaped space of possible objects, as connected regions with associated weights determined by Bayesian revision of maximum-entropy priors.
33	bayesian	2011	Teglas, E; Vul, E; Girotto, V; Gonzalez, M; Tenenbaum, JB; Bonatti, LL	Pure Reasoning in 12-Month-Old Infants as Probabilistic Inference	SCIENCE	Many organisms can predict future events from the statistics of past experience, but humans also excel at making predictions by pure reasoning: integrating multiple sources of information, guided by abstract knowledge, to form rational expectations about novel situations, never directly experienced. Here, we show that this reasoning is surprisingly rich, powerful, and coherent even in preverbal infants. When 12-month-old infants view complex displays of multiple moving objects, they form time-varying expectations about future events that are a systematic and rational function of several stimulus variables. Infants' looking times are consistent with a Bayesian ideal observer embodying abstract principles of object motion. The model explains infants' statistical expectations and classic qualitative findings about object cognition in younger babies, not originally viewed as probabilistic inferences.
34	bayesian	2008	Norris, D; Kinoshita, S	Perception as evidence accumulation and Bayesian inference: Insights from masked priming	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	The authors argue that perception is Bayesian inference based on accumulation of noisy evidence and that, in masked priming, the perceptual system is tricked into treating the prime and the target as a single object. Of the 2 algorithms considered for formalizing how the evidence sampled from a prime and target is combined, only 1 was shown to be consistent with the existing data from the visual word recognition literature. This algorithm was incorporated into the Bayesian Reader model (D. Norris, 2006), and its predictions were confirmed in 3 experiments. The experiments showed that the pattern of masked priming is not a fixed function of the relations between the prime and the target but can be changed radically by changing the task from lexical decision to a same-different judgment. Implications of the Bayesian framework of masked priming for unconscious cognition and visual masking are discussed.
35	bayesian	2013	Pothos, EM; Busemeyer, JR	Can quantum probability provide a new direction for cognitive modeling?	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Classical (Bayesian) probability (CP) theory has led to an influential research tradition for modeling cognitive processes. Cognitive scientists have been trained to work with CP principles for so long that it is hard even to imagine alternative ways to formalize probabilities. However, in physics, quantum probability (QP) theory has been the dominant probabilistic approach for nearly 100 years. Could QP theory provide us with any advantages in cognitive modeling as well? Note first that both CP and QP theory share the fundamental assumption that it is possible to model cognition on the basis of formal, probabilistic principles. But why consider a QP approach? The answers are that (1) there are many well-established empirical findings (e. g., from the influential Tversky, Kahneman research tradition) that are hard to reconcile with CP principles; and (2) these same findings have natural and straightforward explanations with quantum principles. In QP theory, probabilistic assessment is often strongly context-and order-dependent, individual states can be superposition states (that are impossible to associate with specific values), and composite systems can be entangled (they cannot be decomposed into their subsystems). All these characteristics appear perplexing from a classical perspective. However, our thesis is that they provide a more accurate and powerful account of certain cognitive processes. We first introduce QP theory and illustrate its application with psychological examples. We then review empirical findings that motivate the use of quantum theory in cognitive theory, but also discuss ways in which QP and CP theories converge. Finally, we consider the implications of a QP theory approach to cognition for human rationality.
36	bayesian	2011	Jones, M; Love, BC	Bayesian Fundamentalism or Enlightenment? On the explanatory status and theoretical contributions of Bayesian models of cognition	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The prominence of Bayesian modeling of cognition has increased recently largely because of mathematical advances in specifying and deriving predictions from complex probabilistic models. Much of this research aims to demonstrate that cognitive behavior can be explained from rational principles alone, without recourse to psychological or neurological processes and representations. We note commonalities between this rational approach and other movements in psychology - namely, Behaviorism and evolutionary psychology - that set aside mechanistic explanations or make use of optimality assumptions. Through these comparisons, we identify a number of challenges that limit the rational program's potential contribution to psychological theory. Specifically, rational Bayesian models are significantly unconstrained, both because they are uninformed by a wide range of process-level data and because their assumptions about the environment are generally not grounded in empirical measurement. The psychological implications of most Bayesian models are also unclear. Bayesian inference itself is conceptually trivial, but strong assumptions are often embedded in the hypothesis sets and the approximation algorithms used to derive model predictions, without a clear delineation between psychological commitments and implementational details. Comparing multiple Bayesian models of the same task is rare, as is the realization that many Bayesian models recapitulate existing (mechanistic level) theories. Despite the expressive power of current Bayesian models, we argue they must be developed in conjunction with mechanistic considerations to offer substantive explanations of cognition. We lay out several means for such an integration, which take into account the representations on which Bayesian inference operates, as well as the algorithms and heuristics that carry it out. We argue this unification will better facilitate lasting contributions to psychological theory, avoiding the pitfalls that have plagued previous theoretical movements.
37	bayesian	2011	Jones, M; Love, BC	Pinning down the theoretical commitments of Bayesian cognitive models	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Mathematical developments in probabilistic inference have led to optimism over the prospects for Bayesian models of cognition. Our target article calls for better differentiation of these technical developments from theoretical contributions. It distinguishes between Bayesian Fundamentalism, which is theoretically limited because of its neglect of psychological mechanism, and Bayesian Enlightenment, which integrates rational and mechanistic considerations and is thus better positioned to advance psychological theory. The commentaries almost uniformly agree that mechanistic grounding is critical to the success of the Bayesian program. Some commentaries raise additional challenges, which we address here. Other commentaries claim that all Bayesian models are mechanistically grounded, while at the same time holding that they should be evaluated only on a computational level. We argue this contradictory stance makes it difficult to evaluate a model's scientific contribution, and that the psychological commitments of Bayesian models need to be made more explicit.
38	bayesian	2000	Evans, JSBT; Handley, SJ; Perham, N; Over, DE; Thompson, VA	Frequency versus probability formats in statistical word problems	COGNITION	Three experiments examined people's ability to incorporate base rate information when judging posterior probabilities, Specifically, we tested the (Cosmides, L., & Tooby, J. (1996), Are humans good intuitive statisticians after all? Rethinking some conclusions from the literature on judgement under uncertainty. Cognition, 58, 1-73) conclusion that people's reasoning appears to follow Bayesian principles when they are presented with information in a frequency format, but not when information is presented as one case probabilities. First, we found that frequency formats were not generally associated with better performance than probability formats unless they were presented in a manner which facilitated construction of a set inclusion mental model. Second, we demonstrated that the use of frequency information may promote biases in the weighting of information. When participants are asked to express their judgements in frequency rather than probability format, they were more likely to produce the base rate as their answer, ignoring diagnostic evidence. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
39	bayesian	2011	Lee, MD	How cognitive modeling can benefit from hierarchical Bayesian models	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Hierarchical Bayesian modeling provides a flexible and interpretable way of extending simple models of cognitive processes. To introduce this special issue, we discuss four of the most important potential hierarchical Bayesian contributions. The first involves the development of more complete theories, including accounting for variation coming from sources like individual differences in cognition. The second involves the capability to account for observed behavior in terms of the combination of multiple different cognitive processes. The third involves using a few key psychological variables to explain behavior on a wide range of cognitive tasks. The fourth involves the conceptual unification and integration of disparate cognitive models. For all of these potential contributions, we outline an appropriate general hierarchical Bayesian modeling structure. We also highlight current models that already use the hierarchical Bayesian approach, as well as identifying research areas that could benefit from its adoption. (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
40	bayesian	1997	Westfall, PH; Johnson, WO; Utts, JM	A Bayesian perspective on the Bonferroni adjustment	BIOMETRIKA	Bayes/frequentist correspondences between the p-value and the posterior probability of the null hypothesis have been studied in univariate hypothesis testing situations. This paper extends these comparisons to multiple testing and in particular to the Bonferroni multiple testing method, in which p-values are adjusted by multiplying by k, the number of tests considered. In the Bayesian setting, prior assessments may need to be adjusted to account for multiple hypotheses, resulting in corresponding adjustments to the posterior probabilities. Conditions are given for which the adjusted posterior probabilities roughly correspond to Bonferroni adjusted p-values.
41	bayesian	2009	McClelland, JL	The Place of Modeling in Cognitive Science	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	I consider the role of cognitive modeling in cognitive science. Modeling, and the computers that enable it, are central to the field, but the role of modeling is often misunderstood. Models are not intended to capture fully the processes they attempt to elucidate. Rather, they are explorations of ideas about the nature of cognitive processes. In these explorations, simplification is essential-through simplification, the implications of the central ideas become more transparent. This is not to say that simplification has no downsides; it does, and these are discussed. I then consider several contemporary frameworks for cognitive modeling, stressing the idea that each framework is useful in its own particular ways. Increases in computer power (by a factor of about 4 million) since 1958 have enabled new modeling paradigms to emerge, but these also depend on new ways of thinking. Will new paradigms emerge again with the next 1,000-fold increase?
42	bayesian	2011	Boorman, ED; Behrens, TE; Rushworth, MF	Counterfactual Choice and Learning in a Neural Network Centered on Human Lateral Frontopolar Cortex	PLOS BIOLOGY	Decision making and learning in a real-world context require organisms to track not only the choices they make and the outcomes that follow but also other untaken, or counterfactual, choices and their outcomes. Although the neural system responsible for tracking the value of choices actually taken is increasingly well understood, whether a neural system tracks counterfactual information is currently unclear. Using a three-alternative decision-making task, a Bayesian reinforcement-learning algorithm, and fMRI, we investigated the coding of counterfactual choices and prediction errors in the human brain. Rather than representing evidence favoring multiple counterfactual choices, lateral frontal polar cortex (lFPC), dorsomedial frontal cortex (DMFC), and posteromedial cortex (PMC) encode the reward-based evidence favoring the best counterfactual option at future decisions. In addition to encoding counterfactual reward expectations, the network carries a signal for learning about counterfactual options when feedback is available-a counterfactual prediction error. Unlike other brain regions that have been associated with the processing of counterfactual outcomes, counterfactual prediction errors within the identified network cannot be related to regret theory. Furthermore, individual variation in counterfactual choice-related activity and prediction error-related activity, respectively, predicts variation in the propensity to switch to profitable choices in the future and the ability to learn from hypothetical feedback. Taken together, these data provide both neural and behavioral evidence to support the existence of a previously unidentified neural system responsible for tracking both counterfactual choice options and their outcomes.
43	bayesian	2003	Huber, DE; O'Reilly, RC	Persistence and accommodation in short-term priming and other perceptual paradigms: temporal segregation through synaptic depression	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Perceptual input changes constantly in an unpredictable fashion, often changing before our somewhat sluggish perceptual systems have adequately processed this input. This can give rise to source confusion-how do we know whether a given perceptual activation is due to the current input, or a previous input that had yet to be completely processed? We propose that activity-dependent neural accommodation naturally limits this source confusion by suppressing items once they have been identified. We review behavioral paradigms from different literatures that measure the correlates of persistence and accommodation. Of the various accommodative mechanisms, we focus on synaptic depression, deriving a rate-coded expression that can be used to produce accommodating dynamics in any neural network with real valued activation. We implement this expression in a hierarchical model of perception termed, "a neural mechanism for responding optimally with unknown sources of evidence" (nROUSE). This model can be viewed as a more detailed version of the more abstract ROUSE model of Huber, Shiffrin, Lyle, and Ruys (2001), which produces accommodated levels of feature evidence through an optimal calculation. We apply nROUSE to three short-term priming experiments that manipulated prime duration. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
44	bayesian	2011	Moran, RJ; Symmonds, M; Stephan, KE; Friston, KJ; Dolan, RJ	An In Vivo Assay of Synaptic Function Mediating Human Cognition	CURRENT BIOLOGY	The contribution of dopamine to working memory has been studied extensively [1-3]. Here, we exploited its well characterized effects [1-3] to validate a novel human in vivo assay of ongoing synaptic [4, 5] processing. We obtained magnetoencephalographic (MEG) measurements from subjects performing a working memory (WM) task during a within-subject, placebo-controlled, pharmacological (dopaminergic) challenge. By applying dynamic causal modeling (DCM), a Bayesian technique for neuronal system identification [6], to MEG signals from prefrontal cortex, we demonstrate that it is possible to infer synaptic signaling by specific ion channels in behaving humans. Dopamine-induced enhancement of WM performance was accompanied by significant changes in MEG signal power, and a DCM assay disclosed related changes in synaptic signaling. By estimating the contribution of ionotropic receptors (AMPA, NMDA, and GABA(A)) to the observed spectral response, we demonstrate changes in their function commensurate with the synaptic effects of dopamine. The validity of our model is reinforced by a striking quantitative effect on NMDA and AMPA receptor signaling that predicted behavioral improvement over subjects. Our results provide a proof-of-principle demonstration of a novel framework for inferring, noninvasively, neuromodulatory influences on ion channel signaling via specific ionotropic receptors, providing a window on the hidden synaptic events mediating discrete psychological processes in humans.
45	bayesian	2011	Holyoak, KJ; Cheng, PW	Causal Learning and Inference as a Rational Process: The New Synthesis	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY, VOL 62	Over the past decade, an active line of research within the field of human causal learning and inference has converged on a general representational framework: causal models integrated with Bayesian probabilistic inference. We describe this new synthesis, which views causal learning and inference as a fundamentally rational process, and review a sample of the empirical findings that support the causal framework over associative alternatives. Causal events, like all events in the distal world as opposed to our proximal perceptual input, are inherently unobservable. A central assumption of the causal approach is that humans (and potentially nonhuman animals) have been designed in such a way as to infer the most invariant causal relations for achieving their goals based on observed events. In contrast, the associative approach assumes that learners only acquire associations among important observed events, omitting the representation of the distal relations. By incorporating Bayesian inference over distributions of causal strength and causal structures, along with noisy-logical (i.e., causal) functions for integrating the influences of multiple causes on a single effect, human judgments about causal strength and structure can be predicted accurately for relatively simple causal structures. Dynamic models of learning based on the causal framework can explain patterns of acquisition observed with serial presentation of contingency data and are consistent with available neuroimaging data. The approach has been extended to a diverse range of inductive tasks, including category-based and analogical inferences.
46	bayesian	2011	Perfors, A; Tenenbaum, JB; Regier, T	The learnability of abstract syntactic principles	COGNITION	Children acquiring language infer the correct form of syntactic constructions for which they appear to have little or no direct evidence, avoiding simple but incorrect generalizations that would be consistent with the data they receive. These generalizations must be guided by some inductive bias - some abstract knowledge - that leads them to prefer the correct hypotheses even in the absence of directly supporting evidence. What form do these inductive constraints take? It is often argued or assumed that they reflect innately specified knowledge of language. A classic example of such an argument moves from the phenomenon of auxiliary fronting in English interrogatives to the conclusion that children must innately know that syntactic rules are defined over hierarchical phrase structures rather than linear sequences of words (e.g., Chomsky, 1965, 1971, 1980; Crain & Nakayama, 1987). Here we use a Bayesian framework for grammar induction to address a version of this argument and show that, given typical child-directed speech and certain innate domain-general capacities, an ideal learner could recognize the hierarchical phrase structure of language without having this knowledge innately specified as part of the language faculty. We discuss the implications of this analysis for accounts of human language acquisition. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
47	bayesian	2009	McArdle, JJ; Grimm, KJ; Hamagami, F; Bowles, RP; Meredith, W	Modeling Life-Span Growth Curves of Cognition Using Longitudinal Data With Multiple Samples and Changing Scales of Measurement	PSYCHOLOGICAL METHODS	The authors use multiple-sample longitudinal data from different test batteries to examine propositions about changes in constructs over the life span. The data come from 3 classic studies on intellectual abilities in which, in combination, 441 persons were repeatedly measured as many as 16 times over 70 years. They measured cognitive constructs of vocabulary and memory using 8 age-appropriate intelligence test batteries and explore possible linkage of these scales using item response theory (IRT). They simultaneously estimated the parameters of both IRT and latent curve models based on a joint model likelihood approach (i.e., NLMIXED and WINBUGS). They included group differences in the model to examine potential interindividual differences in levels and change. The resulting longitudinal invariant Rasch test analyses lead to a few new methodological suggestions for dealing with repeated constructs based on changing measurements in developmental studies.
48	bayesian	2013	Friston, KJ; Schwartenbeck, P; FitzGerald, T; Moutoussis, M; Behrens, T; Dolan, RJ	The anatomy of choice: active inference and agency	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	This paper considers agency in the setting of embodied or active inference. In brief, we associate a sense of agency with prior beliefs about action and ask what sorts of beliefs underlie optimal behavior. In particular, we consider prior beliefs that action minimizes the KullbackLeibler (KL) divergence between desired states and attainable states in the future. This allows one to formulate bounded rationality as approximate Bayesian inference that optimizes a free energy bound on model evidence. We show that constructs like expected utility, exploration bonuses, softmax choice rules and optimism bias emerge as natural consequences of this formulation. Previous accounts of active inference have focused on predictive coding and Bayesian filtering schemes for minimizing free energy. Here, we consider variational Bayes as an alternative scheme that provides formal constraints on the computational anatomy of inference and actionconstraints that are remarkably consistent with neuroanatomy. Furthermore, this scheme contextualizes optimal decision theory and economic (utilitarian) formulations as pure inference problems. For example, expected utility theory emerges as a special case of free energy minimization, where the sensitivity or inverse temperature (of softmax functions and quantal response equilibria) has a unique and Bayes-optimal solutionthat minimizes free energy. This sensitivity corresponds to the precision of beliefs about behavior, such that attainable goals are afforded a higher precision or confidence. In turn, this means that optimal behavior entails a representation of confidence about outcomes that are under an agent's control.
49	bayesian	2006	Fu, WT; Gray, WD	Suboptimal tradeoffs in information seeking	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Explicit information-seeking actions are needed to evaluate alternative actions in problem-solving tasks. Information-seeking costs are often traded of against the utility of information. We present three experiments that show how subjects adapt to the cost and information structures of environments in a map-navigation task. We found that subjects often stabilize at suboptimal levels of performance. A Bayesian satisficing model (BSM) is proposed and implemented in the ACT-R architecture to predict information-seeking behavior. The BSM uses a local decision rule and a global Bayesian learning mechanism to decide when to stop seeking information. The model matched the human data well, suggesting that adaptation to cost and information structures can be achieved by a simple local decision rule. The local decision rule, however, often limits exploration of the environment and leads to suboptimal performance. We propose that suboptimal performance is an emergent property of the dynamic interactions between cognition and the environment. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
50	bayesian	2005	Lee, MD; Webb, MR	Modeling individual differences in cognition	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Many evaluations of cognitive models rely on data that have been averaged or aggregated across all experimental subjects, and so fail to consider the possibility of important individual differences between subjects. Other evaluations are done at the single-subject level, and so fail to benefit from the reduction of noise that data averaging or aggregation potentially provides. To overcome these weaknesses, we have developed a general approach to modeling individual differences using families of cognitive models in which different groups of subjects are identified as having different psychological behavior. Separate models with separate parameterizations are applied to each group of subjects, and Bayesian model selection is used to determine the appropriate number of groups. We evaluate this individual differences approach in a simulation study and show that it is superior in terms of the key modeling goals of prediction and understanding. We also provide two practical demonstrations of the approach, one using the ALCOVE model of category learning with data from four previously analyzed category learning experiments, the other using multidimensional scaling representational models with previously analyzed similarity data for colors. In both demonstrations, meaningful individual differences are found and the psychological models are able to account for this variation through interpretable differences in parameterization. The results highlight the potential of extending cognitive models to consider individual differences.
51	bayesian	2010	Kruschke, JK	Bayesian data analysis	WILEY INTERDISCIPLINARY REVIEWS-COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Bayesian methods have garnered huge interest in cognitive science as an approach to models of cognition and perception. On the other hand, Bayesian methods for data analysis have not yet made much headway in cognitive science against the institutionalized inertia of 20th century null hypothesis significance testing (NHST). Ironically, specific Bayesian models of cognition and perception may not long endure the ravages of empirical verification, but generic Bayesian methods for data analysis will eventually dominate. It is time that Bayesian data analysis became the norm for empirical methods in cognitive science. This article reviews a fatal flaw of NHST and introduces the reader to some benefits of Bayesian data analysis. The article presents illustrative examples of multiple comparisons in Bayesian analysis of variance and Bayesian approaches to statistical power. (C) 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. WIREs Cogn Sci 2010 1 658-676
52	bayesian	2010	Coltheart, M; Menzies, P; Sutton, J	Abductive inference and delusional belief	COGNITIVE NEUROPSYCHIATRY	Delusional beliefs have sometimes been considered as rational inferences from abnormal experiences. We explore this idea in more detail, making the following points. First, the abnormalities of cognition that initially prompt the entertaining of a delusional belief are not always conscious and since we prefer to restrict the term "experience" to consciousness we refer to "abnormal data" rather than "abnormal experience". Second, we argue that in relation to many delusions (we consider seven) one can clearly identify what the abnormal cognitive data are which prompted the delusion and what the neuropsychological impairment is which is responsible for the occurrence of these data; but one can equally clearly point to cases where this impairment is present but delusion is not. So the impairment is not sufficient for delusion to occur: a second cognitive impairment, one that affects the ability to evaluate beliefs, must also be present. Third (and this is the main thrust of our paper), we consider in detail what the nature of the inference is that leads from the abnormal data to the belief. This is not deductive inference and it is not inference by enumerative induction; it is abductive inference. We offer a Bayesian account of abductive inference and apply it to the explanation of delusional belief.
53	bayesian	2008	Caduff, D; Timpf, S	On the assessment of landmark salience for human navigation	COGNITIVE PROCESSING	In this paper, we propose a conceptual framework for assessing the salience of landmarks for navigation. Landmark salience is derived as a result of the observer's point of view, both physical and cognitive, the surrounding environment, and the objects contained therein. This is in contrast to the currently held view that salience is an inherent property of some spatial feature. Salience, in our approach, is expressed as a three-valued Saliency Vector. The components that determine this vector are Perceptual Salience, which defines the exogenous ( or passive) potential of an object or region for acquisition of visual attention, Cognitive Salience, which is an endogenous ( or active) mode of orienting attention, triggered by informative cues providing advance information about the target location, and Contextual Salience, which is tightly coupled to modality and task to be performed. This separation between voluntary and involuntary direction of visual attention in dependence of the context allows defining a framework that accounts for the interaction between observer, environment, and landmark. We identify the low-level factors that contribute to each type of salience and suggest a probabilistic approach for their integration. Finally, we discuss the implications, consider restrictions, and explore the scope of the framework.
54	bayesian	2003	Verschure, PFMJ; Althaus, P	A real-world rational agent: unifying old and new AI	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Explanations of cognitive processes provided by traditional artificial intelligence were based on the notion of the knowledge level. This perspective has been challenged by new Al that proposes an approach based on embodied systems that interact with the real-world. We demonstrate that these two views can be unified. Our argument is based on. the assumption that knowledge level explanations can be defined in the context of Bayesian theory while the goals of new Al are captured by using a well established robot based model of learning and problem solving, called Distributed Adaptive Control (DAC). In our analysis we consider random foraging and we prove that minor modifications of the DAC architecture renders a model that is equivalent to a Bayesian analysis of this task. Subsequently, we compare this enhanced, "rational," model to its "non-rational" predecessor and a further control condition using both simulated and real robots, in a variety of environments. Our results show that the changes made to the DAC architecture, in order to unify the perspectives of old and new AI, also lead to a significant improvement in random foraging. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
55	bayesian	2003	Geisler, WS; Diehl, RL	A Bayesian approach to the evolution of perceptual and cognitive systems	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We describe a formal framework for analyzing how statistical properties of natural environments and the process of natural selection interact to determine the design of perceptual and cognitive systems. The framework consists of two parts: a Bayesian ideal observer with a utility function appropriate for natural selection, and a Bayesian formulation of Darwin's theory of natural selection. Simulations of Bayesian natural selection were found to yield new insights, for example, into the co-evolution of camouflage, color vision, and decision criteria. The Bayesian framework captures and generalizes, in a formal way, many of the important ideas of other approaches to perception and cognition. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
56	bayesian	1998	Stanovich, KE; West, RF	Who uses base rates and P(D/similar to H)? An analysis of individual differences	MEMORY & COGNITION	In two experiments, involving over 900 subjects, we examined the cognitive correlates of the tendency to view P(D/similar to H) and base rate information as relevant to probability assessment. We found that individuals who viewed P(D/similar to H) as relevant in a selection task and who used it to make the proper Bayesian adjustment in a probability assessment task scored higher on tests of cognitive ability and were better deductive and inductive reasoners. They were less biased by prior beliefs and more data-driven on a covariation assessment task. In contrast, individuals who thought that base rates were relevant did not display better reasoning skill or higher cognitive ability. Our results parallel disputes about the normative status of various components of the Bayesian formula in interesting ways. It is argued that patterns of covariance among reasoning tasks may have implications for inferences about what individuals are trying to optimize in a rational analysis (J. R. Anderson, 1990, 1991).
57	bayesian	2010	Shi, L; Griffiths, TL; Feldman, NH; Sanborn, AN	Exemplar models as a mechanism for performing Bayesian inference	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Probabilistic models have recently received much attention as accounts of human cognition. However, most research in which probabilistic models have been used has been focused on formulating the abstract problems behind cognitive tasks and their optimal solutions, rather than on mechanisms that could implement these solutions. Exemplar models are a successful class of psychological process models in which an inventory of stored examples is used to solve problems such as identification, categorization, and function learning. We show that exemplar models can be used to perform a sophisticated form of Monte Carlo approximation known as importance sampling and thus provide a way to perform approximate Bayesian inference. Simulations of Bayesian inference in speech perception, generalization along a single dimension, making predictions about everyday events, concept learning, and reconstruction from memory show that exemplar models can often account for human performance with only a few exemplars, for both simple and relatively complex prior distributions. These results suggest that exemplar models provide a possible mechanism for implementing at least some forms of Bayesian inference.
58	bayesian	2000	Fischle, M	Mass response to the Lewinsky scandal: Motivated reasoning or Bayesian updating?	POLITICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This study attempts to account for the vastly different trajectories taken by mass and elite opinion in the wake of the Lewinsky affair. Data from a panel study, collected before and just after the scandal broke, suggest that Clinton's prior popularity indelibly colored mass response to the scandal, thereby constraining citizens' reactions. As would be predicted by theories of "motivated reasoning" the influence of various considerations (like the credibility and importance of the allegations) on reactions to the scandal was conditional upon prior affect for the president. Such findings are difficult to accommodate within the more rational "Bayesian updating" perspective. These data shed light on mass response to the Lewinsky scandal in particular and citizen reaction to presidential behavior more generally, as well as on the cognitive mechanisms that facilitate motivated reasoning in candidate evaluation.
59	bayesian	2005	Paulin, MG	Evolution of the cerebellum as a neuronal machine for Bayesian state estimation	JOURNAL OF NEURAL ENGINEERING	The cerebellum evolved in association with the electric sense and vestibular sense of the earliest vertebrates. Accurate information provided by these sensory systems would have been essential for precise control of orienting behavior in predation. A simple model shows that individual spikes in electrosensory primary afferent neurons can be interpreted as measurements of prey location. Using this result, I construct a computational neural model in which the spatial distribution of spikes in a secondary electrosensory map forms a Monte Carlo approximation to the Bayesian posterior distribution of prey locations given the sense data. The neural circuit that emerges naturally to perform this task resembles the cerebellar-like hindbrain electrosensory filtering circuitry of sharks and other electrosensory vertebrates. The optimal filtering mechanism can be extended to handle dynamical targets observed from a dynamical platform; that is, to construct an optimal dynamical state estimator using spiking neurons. This may provide a generic model of cerebellar computation. Vertebrate motion-sensing neurons have specific fractional-order dynamical characteristics that allow Bayesian state estimators to be implemented elegantly and efficiently, using simple operations with asynchronous pulses, i.e. spikes. The computational neural models described in this paper represent a novel kind of particle filter, using spikes as particles. The models are specific and make testable predictions about computational mechanisms in cerebellar circuitry, while providing a plausible explanation of cerebellar contributions to aspects of motor control, perception and cognition.
60	bayesian	2010	Meltzoff, AN; Brooks, R; Shon, AP; Rao, RPN	"Social" robots are psychological agents for infants: A test of gaze following	NEURAL NETWORKS	Gaze following is a key component of human social cognition. Gaze following directs attention to areas of high information value and accelerates social, causal, and cultural learning. An issue for both robotic and infant learning is whose gaze to follow. The hypothesis tested in this study is that infants use information derived from an entity's interactions with other agents as evidence about whether that entity is a perceiver. A robot was programmed so that it could engage in communicative, imitative exchanges with an adult experimenter. Infants who saw the robot act in this social-communicative fashion were more likely to follow its line of regard than those without such experience. Infants use prior experience with the robot's interactions as evidence that the robot is a psychological agent that can see. Infants want to look at what the robot is seeing, and thus shift their visual attention to the external target. (C) 2010 Published by Elsevier Ltd
61	bayesian	2014	Parise, CV; Knorre, K; Ernst, MO	Natural auditory scene statistics shapes human spatial hearing	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Human perception, cognition, and action are laced with seemingly arbitrary mappings. In particular, sound has a strong spatial connotation: Sounds are high and low, melodies rise and fall, and pitch systematically biases perceived sound elevation. The origins of such mappings are unknown. Are they the result of physiological constraints, do they reflect natural environmental statistics, or are they truly arbitrary? We recorded natural sounds from the environment, analyzed the elevation-dependent filtering of the outer ear, and measured frequency-dependent biases in human sound localization. We find that auditory scene statistics reveals a clear mapping between frequency and elevation. Perhaps more interestingly, this natural statistical mapping is tightly mirrored in both ear-filtering properties and in perceived sound location. This suggests that both sound localization behavior and ear anatomy are fine-tuned to the statistics of natural auditory scenes, likely providing the basis for the spatial connotation of human hearing.
62	bayesian	2013	Shi, ZH; Church, RM; Meck, WH	Bayesian optimization of time perception	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Precise timing is crucial to decision-making and behavioral control, yet subjective time can be easily distorted by various temporal contexts. Application of a Bayesian framework to various forms of contextual calibration reveals that, contrary to popular belief, contextual biases in timing help to optimize overall performance under noisy conditions. Here, we review recent progress in understanding these forms of temporal calibration, and integrate a Bayesian framework with information-processing models of timing. We show that the essential components of a Bayesian framework are closely related to the clock, memory, and decision stages used by these models, and that such an integrated framework offers a new perspective on distortions in timing and time perception that are otherwise difficult to explain.
63	bayesian	2012	Desmarais, MC; Baker, RSJD	A review of recent advances in learner and skill modeling in intelligent learning environments	USER MODELING AND USER-ADAPTED INTERACTION	In recent years, learner models have emerged from the research laboratory and research classrooms into the wider world. Learner models are now embedded in real world applications which can claim to have thousands, or even hundreds of thousands, of users. Probabilistic models for skill assessment are playing a key role in these advanced learning environments. In this paper, we review the learner models that have played the largest roles in the success of these learning environments, and also the latest advances in the modeling and assessment of learner skills. We conclude by discussing related advancements in modeling other key constructs such as learner motivation, emotional and attentional state, meta-cognition and self-regulated learning, group learning, and the recent movement towards open and shared learner models.
64	bayesian	2007	Srinivasan, R; Haunschild, P; Grewal, R	Vicarious learning in new product introductions in the early years of a converging market	MANAGEMENT SCIENCE	Technological developments combine previously distinct technologies that result in converging markets. In converging markets, firms from different industries compete against each other, often for the first time. We propose that firms introducing new products in converging markets will learn vicariously from other firms in the market. Further, we propose that this learning will vary across the dual-technology frontier (DTF), where the high-technology frontier (HTF) and low-technology frontier (LTF) map onto innovative activities driven by technological opportunity and user needs. We propose that at the HTF, local search will dominate and firms will be influenced by HTF product introductions of similarly sized, successful firms. At the LTF, learning will occur across the DTF, vary by origin industry of the firm, and be affected by complementarities in routines and capabilities and market competition among firms. We test the proposed model of vicarious learning using panel data on new product introductions of 67 firms in the U.S. digital camera market in the 1990s. Findings generally support our proposed model of vicarious learning in this market. They show heterogeneity in vicarious learning across the technology frontier and firm characteristics-including the origin industry of target firms. Our results show that vicarious learning in new product introductions in converging markets-which includes both mimetic and nonmimetic learning-is similar in some ways, but different from more traditional markets. We conclude with a discussion of the implications of our findings for theories of organizational learning, new product development, and converging markets.
65	bayesian	2012	Angermann, M; Robertson, P	FootSLAM: Pedestrian Simultaneous Localization and Mapping Without Exteroceptive Sensors-Hitchhiking on Human Perception and Cognition	PROCEEDINGS OF THE IEEE	In this paper, we describe FootSLAM, a Bayesian estimation approach that achieves simultaneous localization and mapping for pedestrians. FootSLAM uses odometry obtained with foot-mounted inertial sensors. Whereas existing approaches to infrastructure-less pedestrian position determination are either subject to unbounded growth of positioning error, or require either a priori map information, or exteroceptive sensors, such as cameras or light detection and ranging (LIDARs), FootSLAM achieves long-term error stability solely based on inertial sensor measurements. An analysis of the problem based on a dynamic Bayesian network (DBN) model reveals that this surprising result becomes possible by effectively hitchhiking on human perception and cognition. Two extensions to FootSLAM, namely, PlaceSLAM, for incorporating additional measurements or user provided hints, and FeetSLAM, for automated collaborative mapping, are discussed. Experimental data that validate FootSLAM and its extensions are presented. It is foreseeable that the sensors and processing power of future devices such as smartphones are likely to suffice to position the bearer with the same accuracy that FootSLAM achieves with foot-mounted sensors already today.
66	bayesian	2013	Goodman, ND; Stuhlmuller, A	Knowledge and Implicature: Modeling Language Understanding as Social Cognition	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Is language understanding a special case of social cognition? To help evaluate this view, we can formalize it as the rational speech-act theory: Listeners assume that speakers choose their utterances approximately optimally, and listeners interpret an utterance by using Bayesian inference to invert this model of the speaker. We apply this framework to model scalar implicature (some implies not all, and N implies not more than N). This model predicts an interaction between the speaker's knowledge state and the listener's interpretation. We test these predictions in two experiments and find good fit between model predictions and human judgments.
67	bayesian	2003	Lee, SM; Abbott, PA	Bayesian networks for knowledge discovery in large datasets: basics for nurse researchers	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	The growth of nursing databases necessitates new approaches to data analyses. These databases, which are known to be massive and multidimensional, easily exceed the capabilities of both human cognition and traditional analytical approaches. One innovative approach, knowledge discovery in large databases (KDD), allows investigators to analyze very large data sets more comprehensively in an automatic or a semi-automatic manner. Among KDD techniques, Bayesian networks, a state-of-the art representation of probabilistic knowledge by a graphical diagram, has emerged in recent years as essential for pattern recognition and classification in the healthcare field. Unlike some data mining techniques, Bayesian networks allow investigators to combine domain knowledge with statistical data, enabling nurse researchers to incorporate clinical and theoretical knowledge into the process of knowledge discovery in large datasets. This tailored discussion presents the basic concepts of Bayesian networks and their use as knowledge discovery tools for nurse researchers. (C) 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
68	bayesian	2006	Wagenmakers, EJ; Grunwald, P; Steyvers, M	Accumulative prediction error and the selection of time series models	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This article reviews the rationale for using accumulative one-step-ahead prediction error (APE) as a data-driven method for model selection. Theoretically, APE is closely related to Bayesian model selection and the method of minimum description length (MDL). The sole requirement for using APE is that the models under consideration are capable of generating a prediction for the next, unseen data point. This means that APE may be readily applied to selection problems involving very complex models. APE automatically takes the functional form of parameters into account, and the 'plug-in' version of APE does not require the specification of priors. APE is particularly easy to compute for data that have a natural ordering, such as time series. Here, we explore the possibility of using APE to discriminate the short-range ARMA(1, 1) model from the long-range ARFIMA(0,d, 0) model. We also illustrate how APE may be used for model meta-selection, allowing one to choose between different model selection methods. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
69	bayesian	2012	Griffiths, TL; Vul, E; Sanborn, AN	Bridging Levels of Analysis for Probabilistic Models of Cognition	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Probabilistic models of cognition characterize the abstract computational problems underlying inductive inferences and identify their ideal solutions. This approach differs from traditional methods of investigating human cognition, which focus on identifying the cognitive or neural processes that underlie behavior and therefore concern alternative levels of analysis. To evaluate the theoretical implications of probabilistic models and increase their predictive power, we must understand the relationships between theories at these different levels of analysis. One strategy for bridging levels of analysis is to explore cognitive processes that have a direct link to probabilistic inference. Recent research employing this strategy has focused on the possibility that the Monte Carlo principle-which concerns sampling from probability distributions in order to perform computations-provides a way to link probabilistic models of cognition to more concrete cognitive and neural processes.
70	bayesian	2009	Synofzik, M; Vosgerau, G; Lindner, A	Me or not me - An optimal integration of agency cues?	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	Recent work has demonstrated that the sense of agency is not only determined by efference-copy-based internal predictions and internal comparator mechanisms, but by a large variety of different internal and external cues. The study by Moore and colleagues [Moore, J. W., Wegner, D. M., & Haggard, P. (2009). Modulating the sense of agency with external cues. Conscious and Cognition] aimed to provide further evidence for this view by demonstrating that external agency cues might outweigh or even substitute efferent signals to install a basic registration of self-agency. Although the study contains some critical points that, so we argue, are central to a proper interpretation of the data, it hints at a new perspective on agency: optimal cue integration seems to be the key to a robust sense of agency. We here argue that this framework could allow integrating the findings of Moore and colleagues and other recent agency studies into a comprehensive picture of the sense of agency and its pathological disruptions. (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
71	bayesian	2008	Vasudevan, S; Siegwart, R	Bayesian space conceptualization and place classification for semantic maps in mobile robotics	ROBOTICS AND AUTONOMOUS SYSTEMS	The future of robots, as our companions is dependent on their ability to understand, interpret and represent the environment in a human compatible manner. Towards this aim, this work attempts to create a hierarchical probabilistic concept-oriented representation of space, based on objects. Specifically, it details efforts taken towards learning and generating concepts and attempts to classify places using the concepts gleaned. Several algorithms, from naive ones using only object category presence to more sophisticated ones using both objects and relationships, are proposed. Both learning and inference use the information encoded in the underlying representation-objects and relative spatial information between them. The approaches are based on learning from exemplars, clustering and the use of Bayesian network classifiers. The approaches are generative. Further, even though they are based on learning from exemplars, they are not ontology specific; i.e. they do not assume the use of any particular ontology. The presented algorithms rely on a robots inherent high-level feature extraction capability (object recognition and structural element extraction) capability to actually form concept models and infer them. Thus, this report presents methods that could enable a robot to to link sensory information to increasingly abstract concepts (spatial constructs). Such a conceptualization and the representation that results thereof would enable robots to be more cognizant of their surroundings and yet, compatible to us. Experiments on conceptualization and place classification are reported. Thus, the theme of this work is-conceptualization and classification for representation and spatial cognition. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
72	bayesian	2003	Pitt, MA; Kim, W; Myung, IJ	Flexibility versus generalizability in model selection	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Which quantitative method should be used to choose among competing mathematical models of cognition? Massaro, Cohen, Campbell, and Rodriguez (2001) favor root mean squared deviation (RMSD), choosing the model that provides the best fit to the data. Their simulation results appear to legitimize its use for comparing two models of information integration because it performed just as well as Bayesian model selection (BMS), which had previously been shown by Myung and Pitt (1997) to be a superior alternative selection method because it considers a model's complexity in addition to its fit. In the present study, after contrasting the theoretical approaches to model selection espoused by Massaro et al. and Myung and Pitt, we discuss the cause of the inconsistencies by expanding on the simulations of Massaro et al. Findings demonstrate that the results from model recovery simulations can be misleading if they are not interpreted relative to the data on which they were evaluated, and that BMS is a more robust selection method.
73	bayesian	2013	Marcus, GF; Davis, E	How Robust Are Probabilistic Models of Higher-Level Cognition?	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	An increasingly popular theory holds that the mind should be viewed as a near-optimal or rational engine of probabilistic inference, in domains as diverse as word learning, pragmatics, naive physics, and predictions of the future. We argue that this view, often identified with Bayesian models of inference, is markedly less promising than widely believed, and is undermined by post hoc practices that merit wholesale reevaluation. We also show that the common equation between probabilistic and rational or optimal is not justified.
74	bayesian	2012	Shimazaki, H; Amari, S; Brown, EN; Grun, S	State-Space Analysis of Time-Varying Higher-Order Spike Correlation for Multiple Neural Spike Train Data	PLOS COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY	Precise spike coordination between the spiking activities of multiple neurons is suggested as an indication of coordinated network activity in active cell assemblies. Spike correlation analysis aims to identify such cooperative network activity by detecting excess spike synchrony in simultaneously recorded multiple neural spike sequences. Cooperative activity is expected to organize dynamically during behavior and cognition; therefore currently available analysis techniques must be extended to enable the estimation of multiple time-varying spike interactions between neurons simultaneously. In particular, new methods must take advantage of the simultaneous observations of multiple neurons by addressing their higher-order dependencies, which cannot be revealed by pairwise analyses alone. In this paper, we develop a method for estimating time-varying spike interactions by means of a state-space analysis. Discretized parallel spike sequences are modeled as multi-variate binary processes using a log-linear model that provides a well-defined measure of higher-order spike correlation in an information geometry framework. We construct a recursive Bayesian filter/smoother for the extraction of spike interaction parameters. This method can simultaneously estimate the dynamic pairwise spike interactions of multiple single neurons, thereby extending the Ising/spin-glass model analysis of multiple neural spike train data to a nonstationary analysis. Furthermore, the method can estimate dynamic higher-order spike interactions. To validate the inclusion of the higher-order terms in the model, we construct an approximation method to assess the goodness-of-fit to spike data. In addition, we formulate a test method for the presence of higher-order spike correlation even in nonstationary spike data, e. g., data from awake behaving animals. The utility of the proposed methods is tested using simulated spike data with known underlying correlation dynamics. Finally, we apply the methods to neural spike data simultaneously recorded from the motor cortex of an awake monkey and demonstrate that the higher-order spike correlation organizes dynamically in relation to a behavioral demand.
75	bayesian	2013	Becker, JM; Rai, A; Ringle, CM; Volckner, F	DISCOVERING UNOBSERVED HETEROGENEITY IN STRUCTURAL EQUATION MODELS TO AVERT VALIDITY THREATS	MIS QUARTERLY	A large proportion of information systems research is concerned with developing and testing models pertaining to complex cognition, behaviors, and outcomes of individuals, teams, organizations, and other social systems that are involved in the development, implementation, and utilization of information technology. Given the complexity of these social and behavioral phenomena, heterogeneity is likely to exist in the samples used in IS studies. While researchers now routinely address observed heterogeneity by introducing moderators, a priori groupings, and contextual factors in their research models, they have not examined how unobserved heterogeneity may affect their findings. We describe why unobserved heterogeneity threatens different types of validity and use simulations to demonstrate that unobserved heterogeneity biases parameter estimates, thereby leading to Type I and Type II errors. We also review different methods that can be used to uncover unobserved heterogeneity in structural equation models. While methods to uncover unobserved heterogeneity in covariance-based structural equation models (CB-SEM) are relatively advanced, the methods for partial least squares (PLS) path models are limited and have relied on an extension of mixture regression-finite mixture partial least squares (FIMIX-PLS) and distance measure-based methods-that have mismatches with some characteristics of PLS path modeling. We propose a new method-prediction-oriented segmentation (PLS-POS)-to overcome the limitations of FIMIX-PLS and other distance measure-based methods and conduct extensive simulations to evaluate the ability of PLS-POS and FIMIX-PLS to discover unobserved heterogeneity in both structural and measurement models. Our results show that both PLS-POS and FIMIX-PLS perform
76	bayesian	2007	Rouder, JN; Morey, RD; Speckman, PL; Pratte, MS	Detecting chance: A solution to the null sensitivity problem in subliminal priming	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	In many paradigms, the persuasiveness of subliminal priming relies on establishing that stimuli are undetectable. The standard significance test approach is ill-suited as null results may reflect either truly undetectable stimuli or a lack of power to resolve weakly detectable stimuli. We present a novel statistical model as an alternative. The model provides for estimates of the probability that each individual is truly at chance. Researchers may select individuals for whom there are sufficiently high probabilities of true undetectability. The model is hierarchical, and estimation is done within the Bayesian framework.
77	bayesian	2007	Grossberg, S	Towards a unified theory of neocortex: laminar cortical circuits for vision and cognition	COMPUTATIONAL NEUROSCIENCE: THEORETICAL INSIGHTS INTO BRAIN FUNCTION	A key goal of computational neuroscience is to link brain mechanisms to behavioral functions. The present article describes recent progress towards explaining how laminar neocortical circuits give rise to biological intelligence. These circuits embody two new and revolutionary computational paradigms: Complementary Computing and Laminar Computing. Circuit properties include a novel synthesis of feedforward and feedback processing, of digital and analog processing, and of preattentive and attentive processing. This synthesis clarifies the appeal of Bayesian approaches but has a far greater predictive range that naturally extends to self-organizing processes. Examples from vision and cognition are summarized. A LAMINART architecture unifies properties of visual development, learning, perceptual grouping, attention, and 3D vision. A key modeling theme is that the mechanisms which enable development and learning to occur in a stable way imply properties of adult behavior. It is noted how higher-order attentional constraints can influence multiple cortical regions, and how spatial and object attention work together to learn view-invariant object categories. In particular, a form-fitting spatial attentional shroud can allow an emerging view-invariant object category to remain active while multiple view categories are associated with it during sequences of saccadic eye movements. Finally, the chapter summarizes recent work on the LIST PARSE model of cognitive information processing by the laminar circuits of prefrontal cortex. LIST PARSE models the short-term storage of event sequences in working memory, their unitization through learning into sequence, or list, chunks, and their read-out in planned sequential performance that is under volitional control. LIST PARSE provides a laminar embodiment of Item and Order working memories, also called Competitive Queuing models, that have been supported by both psychophysical and neurobiological data. These examples show how variations of a common laminar cortical design can embody properties of visual and cognitive intelligence that seem, at least on the surface, to be mechanistically unrelated.
78	bayesian	2013	Hamlin, JK; Ullman, T; Tenenbaum, J; Goodman, N; Baker, C	The mentalistic basis of core social cognition: experiments in preverbal infants and a computational model	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	Evaluating individuals based on their pro- and anti-social behaviors is fundamental to successful human interaction. Recent research suggests that even preverbal infants engage in social evaluation; however, it remains an open question whether infants' judgments are driven uniquely by an analysis of the mental states that motivate others' helpful and unhelpful actions, or whether non-mentalistic inferences are at play. Here we present evidence from 10-month-olds, motivated and supported by a Bayesian computational model, for mentalistic social evaluation in the first year of life.A video abstract of this article can be viewed at http://youtu.be/rD_Ry5oqCYE
79	bayesian	2013	Scheibehenne, B; Rieskamp, J; Wagenmakers, EJ	Testing Adaptive Toolbox Models: A Bayesian Hierarchical Approach	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Many theories of human cognition postulate that people are equipped with a repertoire of strategies to solve the tasks they face. This theoretical framework of a cognitive toolbox provides a plausible account of intra- and interindividual differences in human behavior. Unfortunately, it is often unclear how to rigorously test the toolbox framework. How can a toolbox model be quantitatively specified? How can the number of toolbox strategies be limited to prevent uncontrolled strategy sprawl? How can a toolbox model be formally tested against alternative theories? The authors show how these challenges can be met by using Bayesian inference techniques. By means of parameter recovery simulations and the analysis of empirical data across a variety of domains (i.e., judgment and decision making, children's cognitive development, function learning, and perceptual categorization), the authors illustrate how Bayesian inference techniques allow toolbox models to be quantitatively specified, strategy sprawl to be contained, and toolbox models to be rigorously tested against competing theories. The authors demonstrate that their approach applies at the individual level but can also be generalized to the group level with hierarchical Bayesian procedures. The suggested Bayesian inference techniques represent a theoretical and methodological advancement for toolbox theories of cognition and behavior.
80	bayesian	2012	Sweet, RA; Seltman, H; Emanuel, JE; Lopez, OL; Becker, JT; Bis, JC; Weamer, EA; DeMichele-Sweet, MAA; Kuller, LH	Effect of Alzheimer's Disease Risk Genes on Trajectories of Cognitive Function in the Cardiovascular Health Study	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF PSYCHIATRY	Objective: The trajectory of cognitive decline in patients with late-onset Alzheimer's disease varies widely. Genetic variations in CLU, PICALM, and CR1 are associated with Alzheimer's disease, but it is unknown whether they exert their effects by altering cognitive trajectory in elderly individuals at risk for the disease. Method: The authors developed a Bayesian model to fit cognitive trajectories in a cohort of elderly subjects and test for genetic effects. They first validated the model's ability to detect the previously established effects of APOE epsilon 4 alleles on age at cognitive decline and of psychosis on the rate of cognitive decline in 802 subjects from the Cardiovascular Health Cognition Study who did not have dementia at study entry and developed incident dementia during follow-up. The authors then evaluated the effects of CLU, PICALM, and CR1 on age and rate of decline in 1,831 subjects who did not have dementia at study entry and then did or did not develop incident dementia by study's end. Results: The model generated robust fits to the observed cognitive trajectory data, and validation analysis supported the model's utility. CLU and CR1 were associated with more rapid cognitive decline. PICALM was associated with an earlier age at midpoint of cognitive decline. Associations remained after accounting for the effects of APOE and demographic factors. Conclusions: Evaluation of cognitive trajectories provides a powerful approach to dissecting genetic effects on the processes leading to cognitive deterioration and Alzheimer's disease.
81	bayesian	2012	Shafto, P; Goodman, ND; Frank, MC	Learning From Others: The Consequences of Psychological Reasoning for Human Learning	PERSPECTIVES ON PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	From early childhood, human beings learn not only from collections of facts about the world but also from social contexts through observations of other people, communication, and explicit teaching. In these contexts, the data are the result of human actions-actions that come about because of people's goals and intentions. To interpret the implications of others' actions correctly, learners must understand the people generating the data. Most models of learning, however, assume that data are randomly collected facts about the world and cannot explain how social contexts influence learning. We provide a Bayesian analysis of learning from knowledgeable others, which formalizes how learners may use a person's actions and goals to make inferences about the actor's knowledge about the world. We illustrate this framework using two examples from causal learning and conclude by discussing the implications for cognition, social reasoning, and cognitive development.
82	bayesian	2013	Schmidt, A; Diaconescu, AO; Kometer, M; Friston, KJ; Stephan, KE; Vollenweider, FX	Modeling Ketamine Effects on Synaptic Plasticity During the Mismatch Negativity	CEREBRAL CORTEX	This paper presents a model-based investigation of mechanisms underlying the reduction of mismatch negativity (MMN) amplitudes under the NMDA-receptor antagonist ketamine. We applied dynamic causal modeling and Bayesian model selection to data from a recent ketamine study of the roving MMN paradigm, using a cross-over, double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Our modeling was guided by a predictive coding framework that unifies contemporary "adaptation" and "model adjustment" MMN theories. Comparing a series of dynamic causal models that allowed for different expressions of neuronal adaptation and synaptic plasticity, we obtained 3 major results: 1) We replicated previous results that both adaptation and short-term plasticity are necessary to explain MMN generation per se; 2) we found significant ketamine effects on synaptic plasticity, but not adaptation, and a selective ketamine effect on the forward connection from left primary auditory cortex to superior temporal gyrus; 3) this model-based estimate of ketamine effects on synaptic plasticity correlated significantly with ratings of ketamine-induced impairments in cognition and control. Our modeling approach thus suggests a concrete mechanism for ketamine effects on MMN that correlates with drug-induced psychopathology. More generally, this demonstrates the potential of modeling for inferring on synaptic physiology, and its pharmacological modulation, from electroencephalography data.
83	bayesian	2013	Knops, A; Zitzmann, S; McCrink, K	Examining the presence and determinants of operational momentum in childhood	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The operational momentum (OM) effect describes a systematic bias in estimating the outcomes of simple addition and subtraction problems. Outcomes of addition problems are overestimated while outcomes of subtraction problems are underestimated. The origin of OM remains debated. First, a flawed uncompression of numerical information during the course of mental arithmetic is supposed to cause OM due to linear arithmetic operations on a compressed magnitude code. Second, attentional shifts along the mental number line are thought to cause OM. A third hypothesis explains OM in 9-month olds by a cognitive heuristic of accepting more (less) than the original operand in addition (subtraction) problems. The current study attempts to disentangle these alternatives and systematically examines potential determinants of OM, such as reading fluency which has been found to modulate numerical spatial associations. A group of 32 6- and 7-year-old children was tested in non-symbolic addition and subtraction problems, in which they had to choose the correct outcome from an array of several possible outcomes. Reading capacity was assessed for half of the children while attentional measures were assessed in the other half. Thirty-two adults were tested with the identical paradigm to validate its potential of revealing OM. Children (and adults) were readily able to solve the problems. We replicated previous findings of OM in the adults group. Using a Bayesian framework we observed an inverse OM effect in children, i.e., larger overestimations for subtraction compared to addition. A significant correlation between children's level of attentional control and their propensity to exhibit OM was observed. The observed pattern of results, in particular the inverse OM in children is hard to reconcile with the previously proposed theoretical frameworks. The observed link between OM and the attentional system might be interpreted as evidence partially supporting the attentional shift hypothesis.
84	bayesian	2013	Turner, BM; Forstmann, BU; Wagenmakers, EJ; Brown, SD; Sederberg, PB; Steyvers, M	A Bayesian framework for simultaneously modeling neural and behavioral data	NEUROIMAGE	Scientists who study cognition infer underlying processes either by observing behavior (e.g., response times, percentage correct) or by observing neural activity (e.g., the BOLD response). These two types of observations have traditionally supported two separate lines of study. The first is led by cognitive modelers, who rely on behavior alone to support their computational theories. The second is led by cognitive neuroimagers, who rely on statistical models to link patterns of neural activity to experimental manipulations, often without any attempt to make a direct connection to an explicit computational theory. Here we present a flexible Bayesian framework for combining neural and cognitive models. Joining neuroimaging and computational modeling in a single hierarchical framework allows the neural data to influence the parameters of the cognitive model and allows behavioral data, even in the absence of neural data, to constrain the neural model. Critically, our Bayesian approach can reveal interactions between behavioral and neural parameters, and hence between neural activity and cognitive mechanisms. We demonstrate the utility of our approach with applications to simulated fMRI data with a recognition model and to diffusion-weighted imaging data with a response time model of perceptual choice. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
85	bayesian	2012	Piantadosi, ST; Tenenbaum, JB; Goodman, ND	Bootstrapping in a language of thought: A formal model of numerical concept learning	COGNITION	In acquiring number words, children exhibit a qualitative leap in which they transition from understanding a few number words, to possessing a rich system of interrelated numerical concepts. We present a computational framework for understanding this inductive leap as the consequence of statistical inference over a sufficiently powerful representational system. We provide an implemented model that is powerful enough to learn number word meanings and other related conceptual systems from naturalistic data. The model shows that bootstrapping can be made computationally and philosophically well-founded as a theory of number learning. Our approach demonstrates how learners may combine core cognitive operations to build sophisticated representations during the course of development, and how this process explains observed developmental patterns in number word learning. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
86	bayesian	2011	Pezzulo, G; Dindo, H	What should I do next? Using shared representations to solve interaction problems	EXPERIMENTAL BRAIN RESEARCH	Studies on how "the social mind" works reveal that cognitive agents engaged in joint actions actively estimate and influence another's cognitive variables and form shared representations with them. (How) do shared representations enhance coordination? In this paper, we provide a probabilistic model of joint action that emphasizes how shared representations help solving interaction problems. We focus on two aspects of the model. First, we discuss how shared representations permit to coordinate at the level of cognitive variables (beliefs, intentions, and actions) and determine a coherent unfolding of action execution and predictive processes in the brains of two agents. Second, we discuss the importance of signaling actions as part of a strategy for sharing representations and the active guidance of another's actions toward the achievement of a joint goal. Furthermore, we present data from a human-computer experiment (the Tower Game) in which two agents (human and computer) have to build together a tower made of colored blocks, but only the human knows the constellation of the tower to be built (e.g., red-blue-red-blue-...). We report evidence that humans use signaling strategies that take another's uncertainty into consideration, and that in turn our model is able to use humans' actions as cues to "align" its representations and to select complementary actions.
87	bayesian	2008	Mozer, MC; Pashler, H; Homaei, H	Optimal Predictions in Everyday Cognition: The Wisdom of Individuals or Crowds?	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Griffiths and Tenenbaum (2006) asked individuals to make predictions about the duration or extent of everyday events (e.g., cake baking times), and reported that predictions were optimal, employing Bayesian inference based on veridical prior distributions. Although the predictions conformed strikingly to statistics of the world, they reflect averages over many individuals. On the conjecture that the accuracy of the group response is chiefly a consequence of aggregating across individuals, we constructed simple, heuristic approximations to the Bayesian model premised on the hypothesis that individuals have access merely to a sample of k instances drawn from the relevant distribution. The accuracy of the group response reported by Griffiths and Tenenbaum could be accounted for by supposing that individuals each utilize only two instances. Moreover, the variability of the group data is more consistent with this small-sample hypothesis than with the hypothesis that people utilize veridical or nearly veridical representations of the underlying prior distributions. Our analyses lead to a qualitatively different view of how individuals reason from past experience than the view espoused by Griffiths and Tenenbaum.
88	bayesian	2013	Cipora, K; Nuerk, HC	Is the SNARC effect related to the level of mathematics? No systematic relationship observed despite more power, more repetitions, and more direct assessment of arithmetic skill	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	The SNARC (spatial-numerical association of response codes) described that larger numbers are responded faster with the right hand and smaller numbers with the left hand. It is held in the literature that arithmetically skilled and nonskilled adults differ in the SNARC. However, the respective data are descriptive, and the decisive tests are nonsignificant. Possible reasons for this nonsignificance could be that in previous studies (a) very small samples were used, (b) there were too few repetitions producing too little power and, consequently, reliabilities that were too small to reach conventional significance levels for the descriptive skill differences in the SNARC, and (c) general mathematical ability was assessed by the field of study of students, while individual arithmetic skills were not examined. Therefore we used a much bigger sample, a lot more repetitions, and direct assessment of arithmetic skills to explore relations between the SNARC effect and arithmetic skills. Nevertheless, a difference in SNARC effect between arithmetically skilled and nonskilled participants was not obtained. Bayesian analysis showed positive evidence of a true null effect, not just a power problem. Hence we conclude that the idea that arithmetically skilled and nonskilled participants generally differ in the SNARC effect is not warranted by our data.
89	bayesian	2014	Dauter, Z; Wlodawer, A; Minor, W; Jaskolski, M; Rupp, B	Avoidable errors in deposited macromolecular structures: an impediment to efficient data mining	IUCRJ	Whereas the vast majority of the more than 85 000 crystal structures of macromolecules currently deposited in the Protein Data Bank are of high quality, some suffer from a variety of imperfections. Although this fact has been pointed out in the past, it is still worth periodic updates so that the metadata obtained by global analysis of the available crystal structures, as well as the utilization of the individual structures for tasks such as drug design, should be based on only the most reliable data. Here, selected abnormal deposited structures have been analysed based on the Bayesian reasoning that the correctness of a model must be judged against both the primary evidence as well as prior knowledge. These structures, as well as information gained from the corresponding publications (if available), have emphasized some of the most prevalent types of common problems. The errors are often perfect illustrations of the nature of human cognition, which is frequently influenced by preconceptions that may lead to fanciful results in the absence of proper validation. Common errors can be traced to negligence and a lack of rigorous verification of the models against electron density, creation of non-parsimonious models, generation of improbable numbers, application of incorrect symmetry, illogical presentation of the results, or violation of the rules of chemistry and physics. Paying more attention to such problems, not only in the final validation stages but during the structure-determination process as well, is necessary not only in order to maintain the highest possible quality of the structural repositories and databases but most of all to provide a solid basis for subsequent studies, including large-scale data-mining projects. For many scientists PDB deposition is a rather infrequent event, so the need for proper training and supervision is emphasized, as well as the need for constant alertness of reason and critical judgment as absolutely necessary safeguarding measures against such problems. Ways of identifying more problematic structures are suggested so that their users may be properly alerted to their possible shortcomings.
90	bayesian	2010	Sol, D; Garcia, N; Iwaniuk, A; Davis, K; Meade, A; Boyle, WA; Szekely, T	Evolutionary Divergence in Brain Size between Migratory and Resident Birds	PLOS ONE	Despite important recent progress in our understanding of brain evolution, controversy remains regarding the evolutionary forces that have driven its enormous diversification in size. Here, we report that in passerine birds, migratory species tend to have brains that are substantially smaller (relative to body size) than those of resident species, confirming and generalizing previous studies. Phylogenetic reconstructions based on Bayesian Markov chain methods suggest an evolutionary scenario in which some large brained tropical passerines that invaded more seasonal regions evolved migratory behavior and migration itself selected for smaller brain size. Selection for smaller brains in migratory birds may arise from the energetic and developmental costs associated with a highly mobile life cycle, a possibility that is supported by a path analysis. Nevertheless, an important fraction (over 68%) of the correlation between brain mass and migratory distance comes from a direct effect of migration on brain size, perhaps reflecting costs associated with cognitive functions that have become less necessary in migratory species. Overall, our results highlight the importance of retrospective analyses in identifying selective pressures that have shaped brain evolution, and indicate that when it comes to the brain, larger is not always better.
91	bayesian	2007	Buchwald, P	A general bilinear model to describe growth or decline time profiles	MATHEMATICAL BIOSCIENCES	Linear models are widely used because of their unrivaled simplicity, but they cannot be applied for data that have a turning- or rate-change-point, even if the data show good linearity sufficiently far from this point. To describe such bilinear-type data, a completely generalized version of a linearized biexponential model (LinBiExp) is proposed here to make possible smooth and fully parametrizable transitions between two linear segments while still maintaining a clear connection with the linear models. Applications and brief conclusions are presented for various time profiles of biological and medical interest including growth profiles, such as those of human stature, agricultural crops and fruits, multicellular tumor spheroids, single fission yeast cells, or even labor productivity, and decline profiles, such as age-effects on cognition in patients who develop dementia and lactation yields in dairy cattle. In all these cases, quantitative model selection criteria such as the Akaike and the Schwartz Bayesian information criteria indicated the superiority of the bilinear model compared to adequate less parametrized alternatives such as linear, parabolic, exponential, or classical growth (e.g., logistic, Gompertz, Weibull, and Richards) models. LinBiExp provides a versatile and useful five-parameter bilinear functional form that is convenient to implement, is suitable for full optimization, and uses intuitive and easily interpretable parameters. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
92	bayesian	2006	Bhattacharya, S; Ho, MHR; Purkayastha, S	A Bayesian approach to modeling dynamic effective connectivity with fMRI data	NEUROIMAGE	A state-space modeling approach for examining dynamic relationship between multiple brain regions was proposed in Ho, Ombao and Shumway (Ho, M.R., Ombao, H., Shumway, R., 2005. A State-Space Approach to Modelling Brain Dynamics to Appear in Statistica Sinica). Their approach assumed that the quantity representing the influence of one neuronal system over another, or effective connectivity, is time-invariant. However, more and more empirical evidence suggests that the connectivity between brain areas may be dynamic which calls for temporal modeling of effective connectivity. A Bayesian approach is proposed to solve this problem in this paper. Our approach first decomposes the observed time series into measurement error and the BOLD (blood oxygenation level-dependent) signals. To capture the complexities of the dynamic processes in the brain, region-specific activations are subsequently modeled, as a linear function of the BOLD signals history at other brain regions. The coefficients in these linear functions represent effective connectivity between the regions under consideration. They are further assumed to follow a random walk process so to characterize the dynamic nature of brain connectivity. We also consider the temporal dependence that may be present in the measurement errors. ML-11 method (Berger, J.O., 1985. Statistical Decision Theory and Bayesian Analysis (2nd ed.). Springer, New York) was employed to estimate the hyperparameters in the model and Bayes factor was used to compare among competing models. Statistical inference of the effective connectivity coefficients was based on their posterior distributions and the corresponding Bayesian credible regions (Carlin, B.P., Louis, T.A., 2000. Bayes and Empirical Bayes Methods for Data Analysis (2nd ed.). Chapman and Hall, Boca Raton). The proposed method was applied to a functional magnetic resonance imaging data set and results support the theory of attentional control network and demonstrate that this network is dynamic in nature. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
93	bayesian	2004	Lee, MD	A Bayesian analysis of retention functions	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	A long standing goal of quantitative research in cognitive psychology has been to provide a lawful description of the retention of information over time. While a number of theoretical alternatives for a retention function have been developed, their empirical evaluation has almost exclusively relied on their ability to fit experimental data. This has meant that the issue of model complexity, which considers the number of parameter in a model and the functional form of parameter interaction, has generally not been considered in a rigorous way. This paper develops a Bayesian method for comparing retention models that naturally considers the competing demands of goodness-of-fit and complexity. We first implement the Bayesian method using numerical techniques, highlighting the basic properties of the method and showing, in particular, how assumptions about the precision of the data affect the inferences that are drawn. We then develop an analytic Bayesian method, based on the Laplacian approximation, that offers some theoretical insights into the inherent complexities of different retention functions, and has the practical advantage of being computationally efficient. We demonstrate both methods by evaluating linear, hyperbolic, exponential, logarithmic and power retention functions against the collection of data sets considered by Rubin and Wenzel (1996). (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
94	bayesian	2013	Zaki, J	Cue Integration: A Common Framework for Social Cognition and Physical Perception	PERSPECTIVES ON PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Scientists examining how people understand other minds have long thought that this task must be something like how people perceive the physical world. This comparison has proven to be deeply generative, as models of physical perception and social cognition have evolved in parallel. In this article, I propose extending this classic analogy in a new direction by proposing cue integration as a common feature of social cognition and physical perception. When encountering complex social cues-which happens often-perceivers use multiple processes for understanding others' minds. Like physical senses (e.g., vision or audition), social cognitive processes have often been studied as though they operate in relative isolation. In the domain of physical perception, this assumption has broken down, following evidence that perception is instead characterized by pervasive integration of multisensory information. Such integration is, in turn, elegantly described by Bayesian inferential models. By adopting a similar cue integration framework, researchers can similarly understand and formally model the ways that we perceive others' minds based on complex social information.
95	bayesian	2012	Buchsbaum, D; Bridgers, S; Weisberg, DS; Gopnik, A	The power of possibility: causal learning, counterfactual reasoning, and pretend play	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	We argue for a theoretical link between the development of an extended period of immaturity in human evolution and the emergence of powerful and wide-ranging causal learning mechanisms, specifically the use of causal models and Bayesian learning. We suggest that exploratory childhood learning, childhood play in particular, and causal cognition are closely connected. We report an empirical study demonstrating one such connection-a link between pretend play and counterfactual causal reasoning. Preschool children given new information about a causal system made very similar inferences both when they considered counterfactuals about the system and when they engaged in pretend play about it. Counterfactual cognition and causally coherent pretence were also significantly correlated even when age, general cognitive development and executive function were controlled for. These findings link a distinctive human form of childhood play and an equally distinctive human form of causal inference. We speculate that, during human evolution, computations that were initially reserved for solving particularly important ecological problems came to be used much more widely and extensively during the long period of protected immaturity.
96	bayesian	2012	Shogenji, T	The degree of epistemic justification and the conjunction fallacy	SYNTHESE	This paper describes a formal measure of epistemic justification motivated by the dual goal of cognition, which is to increase true beliefs and reduce false beliefs. From this perspective the degree of epistemic justification should not be the conditional probability of the proposition given the evidence, as it is commonly thought. It should be determined instead by the combination of the conditional probability and the prior probability. This is also true of the degree of incremental confirmation, and I argue that any measure of epistemic justification is also a measure of incremental confirmation. However, the degree of epistemic justification must meet an additional condition, and all known measures of incremental confirmation fail to meet it. I describe this additional condition as well as a measure that meets it. The paper then applies the measure to the conjunction fallacy and proposes an explanation of the fallacy.
97	bayesian	2010	Steyvers, M	Combining feature norms and text data with topic models	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	Many psychological theories of semantic cognition assume that concepts are represented by features. The empirical procedures used to elicit features from humans rely on explicit human judgments which limit the scope of such representations. An alternative computational framework for semantic cognition that does not rely on explicit human judgment is based on the statistical analysis of large text collections. In the topic modeling approach, documents are represented as a mixture of learned topics where each topic is represented as a probability distribution over words. We propose feature-topic models, where each document is represented by a mixture of learned topics as well as predefined topics that are derived from feature norms. Results indicate that this model leads to systematic improvements in generalization tasks. We show that the learned topics in the model play in an important role in the generalization performance by including words that are not part of current feature norms. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
98	bayesian	2007	Rao, RPN; Shon, AP; Meltzoff, AN	A Bayesian model of imitation in infants and robots	IMITATION AND SOCIAL LEARNING IN ROBOTS, HUMANS AND ANIMALS: BEHAVIOURAL, SOCIAL AND COMMUNICATIVE DIMENSIONS	0
99	bayesian	1995	FRIEDMAN, D; MASSARO, DW; KITZIS, SN; COHEN, MM	A COMPARISON OF LEARNING-MODELS	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	We investigate learning in a probabilistic task, called ''medical diagnosis.'' On each trial, a subject is presented with a stimulus configuration indicating the value of four medical symptoms. The subject responds by guessing which of two diseases is present and is then given feedback about which disease was actually present. The feedback is determined according to fixed conditional probabilities unknown to the subject. We test a normative Bayesian model as well as simple variants of well-known psychological models including the Fuzzy Logical Model of Perception, an Exemplar model, a two-layer Connectionist model and an ALCOVE model. Both the asymptotic predictions of these models (i.e., predictions regarding behavior after it has stabilized and learning is complete) and predictions of trial-by-trial changes in behavior are tested. The models are tested against existing data from Estes et al. (1989, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 15, 556-571) and new data from medical diagnosis tasks that include not only asymmetric but also symmetric base rates. Learning was observed in all cases in that subjects tended to match the objective probabilities of the symptom configurations more closely in later trials. All of the descriptive models give a more accurate account of performance than the normative Bayesian model. Relative to a benchmark measure, however, none of these models does an especially good job of characterizing asymptotic performance or the learning process. We suggest that future experiments should address individual performance, rather than group learning curves. (C) 1995 Academic Press, Inc.
100	bayesian	2014	Moran, RJ; Symmonds, M; Dolan, RJ; Friston, KJ	The Brain Ages Optimally to Model Its Environment: Evidence from Sensory Learning over the Adult Lifespan	PLOS COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY	The aging brain shows a progressive loss of neuropil, which is accompanied by subtle changes in neuronal plasticity, sensory learning and memory. Neurophysiologically, aging attenuates evoked responses-including the mismatch negativity (MMN). This is accompanied by a shift in cortical responsivity from sensory (posterior) regions to executive (anterior) regions, which has been interpreted as a compensatory response for cognitive decline. Theoretical neurobiology offers a simpler explanation for all of these effects-from a Bayesian perspective, as the brain is progressively optimized to model its world, its complexity will decrease. A corollary of this complexity reduction is an attenuation of Bayesian updating or sensory learning. Here we confirmed this hypothesis using magnetoencephalographic recordings of the mismatch negativity elicited in a large cohort of human subjects, in their third to ninth decade. Employing dynamic causal modeling to assay the synaptic mechanisms underlying these non-invasive recordings, we found a selective age-related attenuation of synaptic connectivity changes that underpin rapid sensory learning. In contrast, baseline synaptic connectivity strengths were consistently strong over the decades. Our findings suggest that the lifetime accrual of sensory experience optimizes functional brain architectures to enable efficient and generalizable predictions of the world.
101	connectionism	1996	Sloman, SA	The empirical case for two systems of reasoning	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	Distinctions have been proposed between systems of reasoning for centuries. This article distills properties shared by many of these distinctions and characterizes the resulting systems in light of recent findings and theoretical developments. One system is associative because its computations reflect similarity structure and relations of temporal contiguity. The other is ''rule based'' because it operates on symbolic structures that have logical content and variables and because its computations have the properties that are normally assigned to rules. The systems serve complementary functions and can simultaneously generate different solutions to a reasoning problem. The rule-based system can suppress the associative system but not completely inhibit it. The article reviews evidence in favor of the distinction and its characterization.
102	connectionism	1992	GEMAN, S; BIENENSTOCK, E; DOURSAT, R	NEURAL NETWORKS AND THE BIAS VARIANCE DILEMMA	NEURAL COMPUTATION	Feedforward neural networks trained by error backpropagation are examples of nonparametric regression estimators.  We present a tutorial on nonparametric inference and its relation to neural networks, and we use the statistical viewpoint to highlight strengths and weaknesses of neural models.  We illustrate the main points with some recognition experiments involving artificial data as well as handwritten numerals.  In way of conclusion, we suggest that current-generation feed-forward neural networks are largely inadequate for difficult problems in machine perception and machine learning, regardless of parallel-versus-serial hardware or other implementation issues.  Furthermore, we suggest that the fundamental challenges in neural modeling are about representation rather than learning per se.  This last point is supported by additional experiments with handwritten numerals.
103	connectionism	1988	FODOR, JA; PYLYSHYN, ZW	CONNECTIONISM AND COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURE - A CRITICAL ANALYSIS	COGNITION	0
104	connectionism	1993	COLTHEART, M; CURTIS, B; ATKINS, P; HALLER, M	MODELS OF READING ALOUD - DUAL-ROUTE AND PARALLEL-DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING APPROACHES	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	It has often been argued that various facts about skilled reading aloud cannot be explained by any model unless that model possesses a dual-route architecture (lexical and nonlexical routes from print to speech). This broad claim has been challenged by Seidenberg and McClelland (1989, 1990). Their model has but a single route from print to speech, yet, they contend, it can account for major facts about reading that have hitherto been claimed to require a dual-route architecture. The authors identify 6 of these major facts about reading. The 1-route model proposed by Seidenberg and McClelland can account for the first of these but not the remaining 5. Because models with dual-route architectures can explain all 6 of these basic facts about reading, the authors suggest that this remains the viable architecture for any tenable model of skilled reading and learning to read. The dual-route cascaded model, a computational version of the dual-route model, is described.
105	connectionism	1994	SHANKS, DR; STJOHN, MF	CHARACTERISTICS OF DISSOCIABLE HUMAN LEARNING-SYSTEMS	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	A number of ways of taxonomizing human learning have ben proposed.  We examine the evidence for one such proposal, namely, that there exist independent explicit and implicit learning systems. This combines two further distinctions, (1) between learning that takes place with versus without concurrent awareness, and (2) between learning that involves the encoding of instances (or fragments) versus the induction of abstract rules or hypotheses.  Implicit learning is assumed to involve unconscious rule learning. We examine the evidence for implicit learning derived from subliminal learning, conditioning, artificial grammar learning, instrumental learning, and reaction times in sequence learning.  We conclude that unconscious learning has not been satisfactorily established in any of these areas.  The assumption that learning in some of theses tasks (e.g., artificial grammar learning) is predominantly based on rule abstraction is questionable.  When subjects cannot report the ''implicitly learned'' rules that govern stimulus selection, this is often because their knowledge consists of instances or fragments of the training stimuli rather than rules.  In contrast to the distinction between conscious and unconscious learning, the distinction between instance and rule learning is a sound and meaningful way of taxonomizing human learning.  We discuss various computational models of these two forms of learning.
106	connectionism	1988	SMOLENSKY, P	ON THE PROPER TREATMENT OF CONNECTIONISM	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	0
107	connectionism	1988	PINKER, S; PRINCE, A	ON LANGUAGE AND CONNECTIONISM - ANALYSIS OF A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING MODEL OF LANGUAGE-ACQUISITION	COGNITION	0
108	connectionism	2008	Penn, DC; Holyoak, KJ; Povinelli, DJ	Darwin's mistake: Explaining the discontinuity between human and nonhuman minds	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Over the last quarter century, the dominant tendency in comparative cognitive psychology has been to emphasize the similarities between human and nonhuman minds and to downplay the differences as "one of degree and not of kind" (Darwin 1871). In the present target article, we argue that Darwin was mistaken: the profound biological continuity between human and nonhuman animals masks an equally profound discontinuity between human and nonhuman minds. To wit, there is a significant discontinuity in the degree to which human and nonhuman animals are able to approximate the higher-order, systematic, relational capabilities of a physical symbol system (PSS) (Newell 1980). We show that this symbolic-relational discontinuity pervades nearly every domain of cognition and runs much deeper than even the spectacular scaffolding provided by language or culture alone can explain. We propose a representational-level specification as to where human and nonhuman animals' abilities to approximate a PSS are similar and where they differ. We conclude by suggesting that recent symbolic-connectionist models of cognition shed new light on the mechanisms that underlie the gap between human and nonhuman minds.
109	connectionism	1993	SHASTRI, L; AJJANAGADDE, V	FROM SIMPLE ASSOCIATIONS TO SYSTEMATIC REASONING - A CONNECTIONIST REPRESENTATION OF RULES, VARIABLES AND DYNAMIC BINDINGS USING TEMPORAL SYNCHRONY	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Human agents draw a variety of inferences effortlessly, spontaneously, and with remarkable efficiency - as though these inferences were a reflexive response of their cognitive apparatus. Furthermore, these inferences are drawn with reference to a large body of background knowledge. This remarkable human ability seems paradoxical given the complexity of reasoning reported by researchers in artificial intelligence. It also poses a challenge for cognitive science and computational neuroscience: How can a system of simple and slow neuronlike elements represent a large body of systemic knowledge and perform a range of inferences with such speed? We describe a computational model that takes a step toward addressing the cognitive science challenge and resolving the artificial intelligence paradox. We show how a connectionist network can encode millions of facts and rules involving n-ary predicates and variables and perform a class of inferences in a few hundred milliseconds. Efficient reasoning requires the rapid representation and propagation of dynamic bindings. Our model (which we refer to as SHRUTI) achieves this by representing (1) dynamic bindings as the synchronous firing of appropriate nodes, (2) rules as interconnection patterns that direct the propagation of rhythmic activity, and (3) long-term facts as temporal pattern-matching subnetworks. The model is consistent with recent neurophysiological evidence that synchronous activity occurs in the brain and may play a representational role in neural information processing. The model also makes specific psychologically significant predictions about the nature of reflexive reasoning. It identifies constraints on the form of rules that may participate in such reasoning and relates the capacity of the working memory underlying reflexive reasoning to biological parameters such as the lowest frequency at which nodes can sustain synchronous oscillations and the coarseness of synchronization.
110	connectionism	1992	MARCUS, GF; PINKER, S; ULLMAN, M; HOLLANDER, M; ROSEN, TJ; XU, F	OVERREGULARIZATION IN LANGUAGE-ACQUISITION	MONOGRAPHS OF THE SOCIETY FOR RESEARCH IN CHILD DEVELOPMENT	Children extend regular grammatical patterns to irregular words, resulting in overregularizations like comed, often after a period of correct performance ("U-shaped development"). The errors seem paradigmatic of rule use, hence bear on central issues in the psychology of rules: how creative rule application interacts with memorized exceptions in development, how overgeneral rules are unlearned in the absence of parental feedback, and whether cognitive processes involve explicit rules or parallel distributed processing (connectionist) networks. We remedy the lack of quantitative data on overregularization by analyzing 11,521 irregular past tense utterances in the spontaneous speech of 83 children. Our findings are as follows. (1) Overregularization errors are relatively rare (median 2.5% of irregular past tense forms), suggesting that there is no qualitative defect in children's grammars that must be unlearned. (2) Overregularization occurs at a roughly constant low rate from the 2s into the school-age years, affecting most irregular verbs. (3) Although overregularization errors never predominate, one aspect of their purported U-shaped development was confirmed quantitatively: an extended period of correct performance precedes the first error. (4) Overregularization does not correlate with increases in the number or proportion of regular verbs in parental speech, children's speech, or children's vocabularies. Thus, the traditional account in which memory operates before rules cannot be replaced by a connectionist alternative in which a single network displays rotelike or rulelike behavior in response to changes in input statistics. (5) Overregularizations first appear when children begin to mark regular verbs for tense reliably (i.e., when they stop saying Yesterday I walk). (6) The more often a parent uses an irregular form, the less often the child overregularizes it. (7) Verbs are protected from overregularization by similar-sounding irregulars, but they are not attracted to overregularization by similar-sounding regulars, suggesting that irregular patterns are stored in an associative memory with connectionist properties, but that regulars are not. We propose a simple explanation. Children, like adults, mark tense using memory (for irregulars) and an affixation rule that can generate a regular past tense form for any verb. Retrieval of an irregular blocks the rule, but children's memory traces are not strong enough to guarantee perfect retrieval. When retrieval fails, the rule is applied, and overregularization results.
111	connectionism	1991	GHABOUSSI, J; GARRETT, JH; WU, X	KNOWLEDGE-BASED MODELING OF MATERIAL BEHAVIOR WITH NEURAL NETWORKS	JOURNAL OF ENGINEERING MECHANICS-ASCE	To date, material modeling has involved the development of mathematical models of material behavior derived from human observation of, and reasoning with, experimental data.  An alternative, discussed in this paper, is to use a computation and knowledge representation paradigm, called neural networks, developed by researchers in connectionism (a subfield of artificial intelligence) to model material behavior.  The main benefits in using a neural-network approach are that all behavior can be represented within a unified environment of a neural network and that the network is built directly from experimental data using the self-organizing capabilities of the neural network, i.e., the network is presented with the experimental data and "learns" the relationships between stresses and strains.  Such a modeling strategy has important implications for modeling the behavior of modern, complex materials, such as composites.  In this paper, the behaviors of concrete in the state of plane stress under monotonic biaxial loading and compressive uniaxial cycle loading are modeled with a back-propagation neural network.  The preliminary results of using neural networks to model materials look very promising.
112	connectionism	1994	TOWELL, GG; SHAVLIK, JW	KNOWLEDGE-BASED ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	Hybrid learning methods use theoretical knowledge of a domain and a set of classified examples to develop a method for accurately classifying examples not seen during training. The challenge of hybrid learning systems is to use the information provided by one source of information to offset information missing from the other source. By so doing, a hybrid learning system should learn more effectively than systems that use only one of the information sources. KBANN (Knowledge-Based Artificial Neural Networks) is a hybrid learning system built on top of connectionist learning techniques. It maps problem-specific ''domain theories'', represented in propositional logic, into neural networks and then refines this reformulated knowledge using backpropagation. KBANN is evaluated by extensive empirical tests on two problems from molecular biology. Among other results, these tests show that the networks created by KBANN generalize better than a wide variety of learning systems, as well as several techniques proposed by biologists.
113	connectionism	1995	Marcus, GF; Brinkman, U; Clahsen, H; Wiese, R; Pinker, S	German inflection: The exception that proves the rule	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Language is often explained as the product of generative rules and a memorized lexicon. For example, most English verbs take a regular past tense suffix (ask-asked), which is applied to new verbs (faxed, wugged), suggesting the mental rule ''add-ed to a Verb.'' Irregular verbs (break-broke, go-went) would be listed in memory. Alternatively, a pattern associator memory (such as a connectionist network) might record all past tense forms and generalize to new ones by similarity; irregular and regular patterns would differ only because of their different numbers of verbs. We present evidence that mental rules are indispensible. A rule concatenates a suffix to a symbol for verbs, so it does not require access to memorized verbs or their sound patterns, but applies as the ''default,'' whenever memory access fails. We find 21 such circumstances for regular past tense formation, including novel, unusual-sounding, and rootless and headless derived words; in every case, people inflect them regularly (explaining quirks like flied out, sabre-tooths, walkmans). Contrary to the connectionist account, these effects are not due to regular words constituting a large majority of vocabulary. The German participle -t applies to a much smaller percentage of verbs than its English counterpart, and the German plural -s applies to a small minority of nouns. Bur the affixes behave in the language like their English counterparts, as defaults. We corroborate this effect in two experiments eliciting ratings of participle and plural forms of novel German words. Thus default suffixation is not due to numerous regular words reinforcing a pattern in associative memory. Because default cases do not occupy a cohesive similarity space, but do correspond to the range of a symbol, they are evidence for a memory-independent, symbol-concatenating mental operation. (C) 1995 Academic Press,Inc.
114	connectionism	1997	Gaskell, MG; Marslen-Wilson, WD	Integrating form and meaning: A distributed model of speech perception	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	We present a new distributed connectionist model of the perception of spoken words. The model employs a representation of speech that combines lexical information with abstract phonological information, with lexical access modelled as a direct mapping onto this single distributed representation. We first examine the integration of partial cues to phonological identity, showing that the model provides a sound basis for simulating phonetic and lexical decision data from Marslen-Wilson and Warren (1994). We then investigate the time course of lexical access, and argue that the process of competition between word candidates during lexical access can be interpreted in terms of interference between distributed lexical representations. The relation between our model and other models of spoken word recognition is discussed.
115	connectionism	1992	LIN, LJ	SELF-IMPROVING REACTIVE AGENTS BASED ON REINFORCEMENT LEARNING, PLANNING AND TEACHING	MACHINE LEARNING	To date, reinforcement learning has mostly been studied solving simple learning tasks. Reinforcement learning methods that have been studied so far typically converge slowly. The purpose of this work is thus twofold: 1) to investigate the utility of reinforcement learning in solving much more complicated learning tasks than previously studied, and 2) to investigate methods that will speed up reinforcement learning. This paper compares eight reinforcement learning frameworks: adaptive heuristic critic (AHC) learning due to Sutton, Q-learning due to Watkins, and three extensions to both basic methods for speeding up learning. The three extensions are experience replay, learning action models for planning, and teaching. The frameworks were investigated using connectionism as an approach to generalization. To evaluate the performance of different frameworks, a dynamic environment was used as a testbed. The environment is moderately complex and nondeterministic. This paper describes these frameworks and algorithms in detail and presents empirical evaluation of the frameworks.
116	connectionism	2000	Beer, RD	Dynamical approaches to cognitive science	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Dynamical ideas are beginning to have a major impact on cognitive science, from foundational debates to daily practice. In this article, I review three contrasting examples of work in this area that address the lexical and grammatical structure of language, Piaget's classic "A-not-B' error, and active categorical perception in an embodied, situated agent. From these three examples, I then attempt to articulate the major differences between dynamical approaches and more traditional symbolic and connectionist approaches. Although the three models reviewed here vary considerable in their details, they share a focus on the unfolding trajectory of a system's state and the internal and external forces that shape this trajectory, rather than the representational content of its constituent states or the underlying physical mechanism that instantiate the dynamics. In some work, this dynamical viewpoint is augmented with a situated and embodied perspective on cognition, forming a promising unified theoretical framework for cognitive science broadly construed.
117	connectionism	1998	van Gelder, T	The dynamical hypothesis in cognitive science	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	According to the dominant computational approach in cognitive science, cognitive agents are digital computers; according to the alternative approach, they are dynamical systems. This target article attempts to articulate and support the dynamical hypothesis. The dynamical hypothesis has two major components: the nature hypothesis (cognitive agents are dynamical systems) and the knowledge hypothesis (cognitive agents can be understood dynamically). A wide range of objections to this hypothesis can be rebutted. The conclusion is that cognitive systems may well be dynamical systems, and only sustained empirical research in cognitive science will determine the extent to which that is true.
118	connectionism	1992	WALDMANN, MR; HOLYOAK, KJ	PREDICTIVE AND DIAGNOSTIC LEARNING WITHIN CAUSAL-MODELS - ASYMMETRIES IN CUE COMPETITION	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Several researchers have recently claimed that higher order types of learning, such as categorization and causal induction. can he reduced to lower order associative learning. These claims are based in part on reports of cue competition in higher order learning. apparently analogous to blocking in classical conditioning. Three experiments are reported in which subjects had to learn to respond on the basis of cues that were defined either as possible causes of a common effect (predictive learning) or as possible effects of a common cause (diagnostic learning). The results indicate that diagnostic and predictive reasoning, far from being identical as predicted by associationistic models. are not even symmetrical. Although cue competition occurs among multiple possible causes during predictive learning, multiple possible effects need not compete during diagnostic learning. The results favor a causal-model theory.
119	connectionism	1993	PRASADA, S; PINKER, S	GENERALIZATION OF REGULAR AND IRREGULAR MORPHOLOGICAL PATTERNS	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	Both regular inflectional patterns (walk-walked) and irregular ones (swing-swung) can be applied productively to novel words (e.g. wug-wugged; spling -splung). Theories of generative phonology attribute both generalisations to rules; connectionist theories attribute both to analogies in a pattern associator network; hybrid theories attribute regular (fully predictable default) generalisations to a rule and irregular generalisations to a rote memory with pattern-associator properties. In three experiments and three simulations, we observe the process of generalising morphological patterns in humans and two-layer connectionist networks. Replicating Bybee and Moder (1983), we find that people's willingness to generalise from existing irregular verbs to novel ones depends on the global similarity between them (e.g. spling is readily inflectable as splung, but nist is not inflectable as nust). In contrast, generalisability of the regular suffix does not appear to depend on similarity to existing regular verbs: Regularly suffixed versions of both common-sounding plip and odd-sounding ploamph were reliably produced and highly rated, and the odd-sounding verbs were not rated as having worse past-tense forms, relative to the naturalness of their stems, than common-sounding ones. In contrast, Rumelhart and McClelland's connectionist past-tense model was found to vary strongly in its tendency to supply both irregular and regular inflections to these novel items as a function of their similarity to forms it was trained on, and for the dissimilar forms, successful regular inflection rarely occurred. We suggest that rule-only theories have trouble explaining patterns of irregular generalisations, whereas single-network theories have trouble explaining regular ones; the computational demands of the two kinds of verbs are different, so a modular system is optimal for handling both simultaneously. Evidence from linguistics and psycholinguistics independently calls for such a hybrid, where irregular pairs are stored in a memory system that superimposes phonological forms, fostering generalisation by analogy, and regulars are generated by a default suffix concatenation process capable of operating on any verb, regardless of its sound.
120	connectionism	2003	Hummel, JE; Holyoak, KJ	A symbolic-connectionist theory of relational inference and generalization	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The authors present a theory of how relational inference and generalization can be accomplished within a cognitive architecture that is psychologically and neurally realistic. Their proposal is a form of symbolic connectionism: a connectionist system based on distributed representations of concept meanings, using temporal synchrony to bind fillers and roles into relational structures. The authors present a specific instantiation of their theory in the form of a computer simulation model, Learning and Inference with Schemas and Analogies (LISA). By using a kind of self-supervised learning, LISA can make specific inferences and form new relational generalizations and can hence acquire new schemas by induction from examples. The authors demonstrate the sufficiency of the model by using it to simulate a body of empirical phenomena concerning analogical inference and relational generalization.
121	connectionism	1992	CACIOPPO, JT; BERNTSON, GG	SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE DECADE OF THE BRAIN - DOCTRINE OF MULTILEVEL ANALYSIS	AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST	The 1990s were declared by Congress to be the "decade of the brain." This declaration is important to all psychologists, not only neuroscientists, because with this declaration come expectations of the cognitive and behavioral sciences generally and because the brain does not exist in isolation but rather is a fundamental component of developing and aging individuals who themselves are mere actors in the larger theater of life. This article examines the importance of a multilevel, integrative approach to the study of mental and behavioral phenomena in the decade of the brain, reviews how this approach highlights the synergistic relationship between theoretical and clinically relevant research, and illustrates how this approach can foster the transition from microtheories to general psychological theories.
122	connectionism	1990	BESNER, D; TWILLEY, L; MCCANN, RS; SEERGOBIN, K	ON THE ASSOCIATION BETWEEN CONNECTIONISM AND DATA - ARE A FEW WORDS NECESSARY	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	0
123	connectionism	2000	Gomez, RL; Gerken, L	Infant artificial language learning and language acquisition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The rapidity with which children acquire language is one of the mysteries of human cognition. A view held widely for the past 30 years is that children master language by means of a language-specific learning device. An earlier proposal, which has generated renewed interest, is that children make use of domain-general. associative learning mechanisms. However, our current lack of knowledge of the actual reaming mechanisms involved during infancy makes it difficult to determine the relative contributions of innate and acquired knowledge. A recent approach to studying this problem exposes infants to artificial languages and assesses the resulting learning. In this article, we review studies using this paradigm that have led to a number of exciting discoveries regarding the learning mechanisms available during infancy. These studies raise important issues with respect to whether such mechanisms are general or specific to language, the extent to which they reflect statistical learning versus symbol manipulation, and the extent to which suck mechanisms change with development. The fine-grained characterizations of infant learning mechanisms that this approach permits should result in a better understanding of the relative contributions of, and the dynamic between, innate and learned factors in language acquisition.
124	connectionism	1991	POLLACK, JB	THE INDUCTION OF DYNAMIC RECOGNIZERS	MACHINE LEARNING	A higher order recurrent neural network architecture learns to recognize and generate languages after being "trained" on categorized exemplars.  Studying these networks from the perspective of dynamical systems yields two interesting discoveries:  First, a longitudinal examination of the learning process illustrates a new form of mechanical inference:  Induction by phase transition.  A small weight adjustment causes a "bifurcation" in the limit behavior of the network.  This phase transition corresponds to the onset of the network's capacity for generalizing to arbitrary-length strings.  Second, a study of the automata resulting from the acquisition of previously published training sets indicates that while the architecture is not guaranteed to find a minimal finite automaton consistent with the given exemplars, which is an NP-Hard problem, the architecture does appear capable of generating non-regular languages by exploiting fractal and chaotic dynamics.  I end the paper with a hypothesis relating linguistic generative capacity to the behavioral regimes of non-linear dynamical systems.
125	connectionism	1996	Smith, ER	What do connectionism and social psychology offer each other?	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Social psychologists can benefit from exploring connectionist or parallel distributed processing models of mental representation and process and also can contribute much to connectionist theory in return. Connectionist models involve many simple processing units that send activation signals over connections. At an abstract level, the models can be described as representing concepts (as distributed patterns of activation), operating like schemas to fill in typical values for input information, reconstructing memories based on accessible knowledge rather than retrieving static representations, using flexible and context-sensitive concepts, and computing by satisfying numerous constraints in parallel. This article reviews open questions regarding connectionist models and concludes that social psychological contributions to such topics as cognition-motivation interactions may be important for the development of integrative connectionist models.
126	connectionism	1992	STEIN, JF	THE REPRESENTATION OF EGOCENTRIC SPACE IN THE POSTERIOR PARIETAL CORTEX	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The posterior parietal cortex (PPC) is the most likely site where egocentric spatial relationships are represented in the brain. PPC cells receive visual, auditory, somaesthetic, and vestibular sensory inputs; oculomotor, head, limb, and body motor signals; and strong motivational projections from the limbic system. Their discharge increases not only when an animal moves towards a sensory target, but also when it directs its attention to it. PPC lesions have the opposite effect: sensory inattention and neglect. The PPC does not seem to contain a "map" of the location of objects in space but a distributed neural network for transforming one set of sensory vectors into other sensory reference frames or into various motor coordinate systems. Which set of transformation rules is used probably depends on attention, which selectively enhances the synapses needed for making a particular sensory comparison or aiming a particular movement.
127	connectionism	1990	FODOR, J; MCLAUGHLIN, BP	CONNECTIONISM AND THE PROBLEM OF SYSTEMATICITY - WHY SMOLENSKY SOLUTION DOESNT WORK	COGNITION	0
128	connectionism	1991	SHAVLIK, JW; MOONEY, RJ; TOWELL, GG	SYMBOLIC AND NEURAL LEARNING ALGORITHMS - AN EXPERIMENTAL COMPARISON	MACHINE LEARNING	Despite the fact that many symbolic and neural network (connectionist) learning algorithms address the same problem of learning from classified examples, very little is known regarding their comparative strengths and weaknesses.  Experiments comparing the ID3 symbolic learning algorithm with the perceptron and backpropagation neural learning algorithms have been performed using five large, real-world data sets.  Overall, backpropagation performs slightly better than the other two algorithms in terms of classification accuracy on new examples, but takes much longer to train.  Experimental results suggest that backpropagation can work significantly better on data sets containing numerical data.  Also analyzed empirically are the effects of (1) the amount of training data, (2) imperfect training examples, and (3) the encoding of the desired outputs.  Backpropagation occasionally outperforms the other two systems when given relatively small amounts of training data.  It is slightly more accurate than ID3 when examples are noisy or incompletely specified.  Finally, backpropagation more effectively utilizes a "distributed" output encoding.
129	connectionism	1993	BICKHARD, MH	REPRESENTATIONAL CONTENT IN HUMANS AND MACHINES	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	This article focuses on the problem of representational content. Accounting for representational content is the central issue in contemporary naturalism: it is the major remaining task facing a naturalistic conception of the world. Representational content is also the central barrier to contemporary cognitive science and artificial intelligence: it is not possible to understand representation in animals nor to construct machines with genuine representation given current (lack of) understanding of what representation is. An elaborated critique is offered to current approaches to representation, arguing that the basic underlying approach is, at root, logically incoherent, and, thus, that standard approaches are doomed to failure. An alternative model of representation-interactivism-is presented that avoids or solves the problems facing standard approaches. Interactivism is framed by a version of functionalism, and a naturalization of that functionalism completes an outline of a naturalization of representation and representational content.
130	connectionism	2003	Albright, A; Hayes, B	Rules vs. analogy in English past tenses: a computational/experimental study	COGNITION	Are morphological patterns learned in the form of rules? Some models deny this, attributing all morphology to analogical mechanisms. The dual mechanism model (Pinker, S., & Prince, A. (1998). On language and connectionism: analysis of a parallel distributed processing model of language acquisition. Cognition, 28, 73-193) posits that speakers do internalize rules, but that these rules are few and cover only regular processes; the remaining patterns are attributed to analogy. This article advocates a third approach, which uses multiple stochastic rules and no analogy. We propose a model that employs inductive learning to discover multiple rules, and assigns them confidence scores based on their performance in the lexicon. Our model is supported over the two alternatives by new "wug test" data on English past tenses, which show that participant ratings of novel pasts depend on the phonological shape of the stem, both for irregulars and, surprisingly, also for regulars. The latter observation cannot be explained under the dual mechanism approach, which derives all regulars with a single rule. To evaluate the alternative hypothesis that all morphology is analogical, we implemented a purely analogical model, which evaluates novel pasts based solely on their similarity to existing verbs. Tested against experimental data, this analogical model also failed in key respects: it could not locate patterns that require abstract structural characterizations, and it favored implausible responses based on single, highly similar exemplars. We conclude that speakers extend morphological patterns based on abstract structural properties, of a kind appropriately described with rules. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
131	connectionism	1997	Burgess, C; Lund, K	Modelling parsing constraints with high-dimensional context space	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	Deriving representations of meaning has been a long-standing problem in cognitive psychology and psycholinguistics. The lack of a model for representing semantic and grammatical knowledge has been a handicap in attempting to model the effects of semantic constraints in human syntactic processing. A computational model of high-dimensional context space, the Hyperspace Analogue to Language (HAL), is presented with a series of simulations modelling a variety of human empirical results. HAL learns its representations from the unsupervised processing of 300 million words of conversational text. We propose that HAL's high-dimensional context space can be used to (1) provide a basic categorisation of semantic and grammatical concepts, (2) model certain aspects of morphological ambiguity in verbs, and (3) provide an account of semantic context effects in syntactic processing. We propose that the distributed and contextually derived representations that HAL acquires provide a basis for the subconceptual knowledge that can be used in accounting for a diverse set of cognitive phenomena.
132	connectionism	2005	Steels, L; Belpaeme, T	Coordinating perceptually grounded categories through language: A case study for colour	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	This article proposes a number of models to examine through which mechanisms a population of autonomous agents could arrive at a repertoire of perceptually grounded categories that is sufficiently shared to allow successful communication. The models are inspired by the main approaches to human categorisation being discussed in the literature: nativism, empiricism, and culturalism. Colour is taken as a case study Although we take no stance on which position is to be accepted as final truth with respect to human categorisation and naming, we do point to theoretical constraints that make each position more or less likely and we make clear suggestions on what the best engineering solution would be. Specifically, we argue that the collective choice of a shared repertoire must integrate multiple constraints, including constraints coining from communication.
133	connectionism	1999	Seidenberg, MS; MacDonald, MC	A probabilistic constraints approach to language acquisition and processing	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article provides an overview of a probabilistic constraints framework for thinking about language acquisition and processing. The generative approach attempts to characterize knowledge of language (i.e., competence grammar) and then asks how this knowledge is acquired and used. Our approach is performance oriented: the goal is to explain how people comprehend and produce utterances and how children acquire this skill. Use of language involves exploiting multiple probabilistic constraints over various types of linguistic and nonlinguistic information. Acquisition is the process of accumulating this information, which begins in infancy. The constraint satisfaction processes that ore central to language use are the same as the bootstrapping processes that provide entry to language for the child. Framing questions about acquisition in terms of models of adult performance unifies the two topics under a set of common principles and has important consequences for arguments concerning language learnability.
134	connectionism	2007	Menary, R	Cognitive Integration: Mind and Cognition Unbounded	COGNITIVE INTEGRATION: MIND AND COGNITION UNBOUNDED	0
135	connectionism	2006	Duffau, H	New concepts in surgery of WHO grade II gliomas: functional brain mapping, connectionism and plasticity - a review	JOURNAL OF NEURO-ONCOLOGY	Despite a recent literature supporting the impact of surgery on the natural history of low-grade glioma (LGG), the indications of resection still remain a matter of debate, especially because of the frequent location of these tumors within eloquent brain areas - thus with a risk to induce a permanent postoperative deficit. Therefore, since the antagonist nature of this surgery is to perform the most extensive glioma removal possible, while preserving the function and the quality of life, new concepts were recently applied to LGG resection in order to optimize the benefit/risk ratio of the surgery. First, due to the development of functional mapping methods, namely perioperative neurofunctional imaging and intrasurgical direct electrical stimulation, the study of cortical functional organization is currently possible for each patient - in addition to an extensive neuropsychological assessment. Such knowledge is essential because of the inter-individual anatomo-functional variability, increased in tumors due to cerebral plasticity phenomena. Thus, brain mapping enables to envision and perform a resection according to individual functional boundaries. Second, since LGG invades not only cortical but also subcortical structures, and shows an infiltrative progression along the white matter tracts, new techniques of anatomical tracking and functional mapping of the subcortical white matter pathways were also used with the goal to study the individual effective connectivity - which needs imperatively to be preserved during the resection. Third, the better understanding of brain plasticity mechanisms, induced both by the slow-growing LGG and by the surgery itself, were equally studied in each patient and applied to the surgical strategy by incorporating individual dynamic potential of reorganization into the operative planning. The integration of these new concepts of individual functional mapping, connectivity and plastic potential to the surgery of LGG has allowed an extent of surgical indications, an optimization of the quality of resection (neuro-oncological benefit), and a minimization of the risk of sequelae (benefit on the quality of life). In addition, such a strategy has also fundamental applications, since it represents a new door to the connectionism and cerebral plasticity.
136	connectionism	1994	CLARK, A; TORIBIO, J	DOING WITHOUT REPRESENTING	SYNTHESE	Connectionism and classicism, it generally appears, have at least this much in common:  both place some notion of internal representation at the heart of a scientific study of mind.  In recent years, however, a much more radical view has gained increasing popularity.  This view calls into question the commitment to internal representation itself.  More strikingly still, this new wave of anti-representationalism is rooted not in 'armchair' theorizing but in practical attempts to model and understand intelligent, adaptive behavior.  In this paper we first present, and then critically assess, a variety of recent anti-representationalist treatments.  We suggest that so far, at least, the sceptical rhetoric outpaces both evidence and argument.  Some probable causes of this premature scepticism are isolated.  Nonetheless, the anti-representationalist challenge is shown to be both important and progressive insofar as it forces us to see beyond the bare representational/non-representational dichotomy and to recognize instead a rich continuum of degrees and types of representationality.
137	connectionism	2008	Glockner, A; Betsch, T	Modeling option and strategy choices with connectionist networks: Towards an integrative model of automatic and deliberate decision making	JUDGMENT AND DECISION MAKING	We claim that understanding human decisions requires that both automatic and deliberate processes be considered. First, we sketch the qualitative differences between two hypothetical processing systems, an automatic and a deliberate system. Second, we show the potential that connectionism offers for modeling processes of decision making and discuss some empirical evidence. Specifically, we posit that the integration of information and the application of a selection rule are governed by the automatic system. The deliberate system is assumed to be responsible for information search, inferences and the modification of the network that the automatic processes act on. Third, we critically evaluate the multiple-strategy approach to decision making. We introduce the basic assumption of an integrative approach stating that individuals apply an all-purpose rule for decisions but use different strategies for information search. Fourth, we develop a connectionist framework that explains the interaction between automatic and deliberate processes and is able to account for choices both at the option and at the strategy level.
138	connectionism	1998	Marcus, GF	Rethinking eliminative connectionism	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Humans routinely generalize universal relationships to unfamiliar instances. If we are told "if glork then frum," and "glork," we can infer "frum"; any name that serves as the subject of a sentence can appear as the object of a sentence. These universals are pervasive in language and reasoning. One account of how they are generalized holds that humans possess mechanisms that manipulate symbols and variables; an alternative account holds that symbol-manipulation can be eliminated from scientific theories in favor of descriptions couched in terms of networks of interconnected nodes. Can these "eliminative" connectionist models offer a genuine alternative? This article shows that eliminative connectionist models cannot account for how we extend universals to arbitrary items. The argument runs as follows. First, if these models, as currently conceived, were to extend universals to arbitrary instances, they would have to generalize outside the space of training examples. Next, it is shown that the class of eliminative connectionist models that is currently popular cannot learn to extend universals outside the training space. This limitation might be avoided through the use of an architecture that implements symbol manipulation. (C) 1998 Academic Press.
139	connectionism	1996	Andrews, S	Lexical retrieval and selection processes: Effects of transposed-letter confusability	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	Three experiments investigated performance for words which differ from another word only by the transposition of two letters (e.g., salt, slat). In Experiment 1, high frequency words from transposed-letter (TL) confusable pairs were responded to more slowly than carefully matched control words in both the lexical decision and word naming task. Low frequency TL words were responded to less accurately than control words in the naming but not the lexical decision task. Experiment 2 replicated the naming data of Experiment 1 and also revealed that naming accuracy for TL word targets was reduced when they were preceded by a brief masked presentation of their confusable mate. Experiment 3 provided a third replication of the impaired naming performance for TL target words and demonstrated that the effect was insensitive to concurrent dual task demands. These TL confusability effects provide strong constraints that can contribute to evaluation and specification of current models of visual word recognition. (C) 1996 Academic Press, Inc.
140	connectionism	1992	SMITH, EE; LANGSTON, C; NISBETT, RE	THE CASE FOR RULES IN REASONING	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	A number of theoretical positions in psychology-including variants of case-based reasoning, instance-based analogy, and connectionist models-maintain that rules are not involved in human reasoning, or at best play a minor role. Other views hold that the use of abstract rules is a core aspect of human reasoning. We propose eight criteria for determining whether or not people use abstract rules in reasoning, and examine evidence relevant to each criterion for several rule systems. We argue that there is substantial evidence that several different inferential rules, including modus ponens, contractual rules, causal rules, and the law of large numbers, are used in solving everyday problems. We discuss the implications for various theoretical positions and consider hybrid mechanisms that combine aspects of instance and rule models.
141	connectionism	2002	Garlick, D	Understanding the nature of the general factor of intelligence: The role of individual differences in neural plasticity as an explanatory mechanism	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The nature of the general factor of intelligence, or g, is examined. This article begins by observing that the finding of a general factor of intelligence appears to be inconsistent with current findings in neuroscience and cognitive science, where specific connections are argued to be critical for different intellectual abilities and the brain is argued to develop these connections in response to environmental stimuli. However, it is then observed that if people differed in neural plasticity, or the ability to adapt their connections to the environment, then those highly developed in one intellectual ability would be highly developed in other intellectual abilities as well. Simulations are then used to confirm that such a pattern would be obtained. Such a model is also shown to account fur many other findings in the field of intelligence that are currently unexplained. A critical period for intellectual development is then emphasized.
142	connectionism	2002	Atkinson, D	Toward a sociocognitive approach to second language acquisition	MODERN LANGUAGE JOURNAL	This article develops the notion of a sociocognitive perspective on second language acquisition (SLA), proposed as an alternative to the cognitivism pervading the field. By sociocognitive, I mean a view of language and language acquisition as simultaneously occurring and interactively constructed both "in the head" and "in the world." First, I develop a view of language and its acquisition as social phenomena-as existing and taking place for the performance of action in the (socially-mediated) world. Second, I describe the cognitive nature of language and its acquisition, focusing especially on recent developments in connectionism. Third, I introduce sociocognitive views of language and posit a social interpretation of connectionism as bridging the gap between cognition and social action. Fourth, I discuss sociocognitive perspectives on first language acquisition. Fifth, I describe the cognitivist biases of much SLA research, then suggest how sociocognitive approaches can help overcome them. I end by considering implications of the perspective I develop in this paper.
143	connectionism	1994	KARMILOFFSMITH, A	PRECIS OF BEYOND MODULARITY - A DEVELOPMENTAL PERSPECTIVE ON COGNITIVE SCIENCE	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Beyond modularity attempts a synthesis of Fodor's anticonstructivist nativism and Piaget's antinativist constructivism. Contra Fodor, I argue that: (1) the study of cognitive development is essential to cognitive science, (2) the module/central processing dichotomy is too rigid, and (3) the mind does not begin with prespecified modules; rather, development involves a gradual process of ''modularization.'' Contra Piaget, I argue that: (1) development rarely involves stagelike domain-general change and (2) domain-specific predispositions give development a small but significant kickstart by focusing the infant's attention on proprietary inputs. Development does not stop at efficient learning. A fundamental aspect of human development (''representational redescription'') is the hypothesized process by which information that is in a cognitive system becomes progressively explicit knowledge to that system. Development thus involves two complementary processes of progressive modularization and progressive ''explicitation.'' Empirical findings on the child as linguist, physicist, mathematician, psychologist, and notator are discussed in support of the theoretical framework. Each chapter concentrates first on the initial state of the infant mind/brain and on subsequent domain-specific learning in infancy and early childhood. It then goes on to explore data on older children's problem solving and theory building, with particular focus on evolving cognitive flexibility. Emphasis is placed throughout on the status of representations underlying different capacities and on the multiple levels at which knowledge is stored and accessible. Finally, consideration is given to the need for more formal developmental models, and a comparison is made between representational redescription and connectionist simulations of development. In conclusion, I consider what is special about human cognition by speculating on the status of representations underlying the structure of behavior in other species.
144	connectionism	1998	Ellis, NC	Emergentism, connectionism and language learning	LANGUAGE LEARNING	This review summarizes a range of theoretical approaches to language acquisition. It argues that language representations emerge from interactions at all levels from brain to society. Simple learning mechanisms, operating in and across the human systems for perception, motor-action and cognition as they are exposed to language data as part of a social environment, suffice to drive the emergence of complex language representations. Connectionism provides a set of computational tools for exploring the conditions under which emergent properties arise. I present various simulations of emergence of linguistic regularity for illustration.
145	connectionism	1993	FU, LM	KNOWLEDGE-BASED CONNECTIONISM FOR REVISING DOMAIN THEORIES	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS MAN AND CYBERNETICS	Integration of domain theory into empirical learning is important in building a useful learning system in practical domains since the theory is not always perfect and the data is not always adequate. A novel knowledge-based connectionist model referred to as KBCNN for machine learning is presented. In the KBCNN learning model, useful domain attributes and concepts are first identified and linked in a way consistent with initial domain knowledge, and then the links are weighted properly so as to maintain the semantics. Hidden units and additional connections may be introduced into this initial connectionist structure as appropriate. Then, this primitive structure evolves to minimize empirical error. The KBCNN learning model allows the theory learned or revised to be translated into the symbolic rule-based language that describes the initial theory. Thus, a domain theory can be pushed onto the network, revised empirically over time, and decoded in symbolic form. The domain of molecular genetics has been used to demonstrate the validity of the KBCNN learning model and its superiority over related learning methods.
146	connectionism	1991	MCCLOSKEY, M	NETWORKS AND THEORIES - THE PLACE OF CONNECTIONISM IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	0
147	connectionism	1992	RAAIJMAKERS, JGW; SHIFFRIN, RM	MODELS FOR RECALL AND RECOGNITION	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY	0
148	connectionism	1997	Clark, A; Thornton, C	Trading spaces: Computation, representation, and the limits of uninformed learning	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Some regularities enjoy only an attenuated existence in a body of training data. These are regularities whose statistical visibility depends on some systematic recoding of the data. The space of possible recodings is, however, infinitely large - its is the space of applicable Turing machines. As a result, mappings that pivot on such attenuated regularities cannot, in general, be found by brute-force search. The class of problems that present such mappings we call the class of ''type-2 problems''. Type-1 problems, by contrast, present tractable problems of search insofar as the relevant regularities can be found by sampling the input data as originally coded. Type-2 problems, we suggest, present neither rare nor pathological cases. They are rife in biologically realistic setting sand in domains ranging from simple animat (simulated animal or autonomous robot) behaviors to language acquisition. Not only are such problems rife - they are standardly solved! This presents a puzzle. How, given the statistical intractability of these type-2 cases, does nature turn the trick? One answer, which we do not pursue, is to suppose that evolution gifts us with exactly the right set of recoding biases so as to reduce specific type-2 problems to (tractable) type-1 mappings. Such a heavy-duty nativism is not doubt sometimes plausible. But we believe there are other, more general mechanisms also at work. Such mechanisms provide general (not task-specific) strategies for managing problems of type-2 complexity. Several such mechanisms are investigated. At the heart of each is a fundamental poly - namely, the maximal exploitation of states of representation already achieved by prior, simpler (type-1) learning so as to reduce the amount of subsequent computational search. Such exploitation both characterizes and helps make unitary sense of a diverse range of mechanisms. These include simple incremental learning (Elman 1993), modular connectionism (Jacobs et al. 1991), and the developmental hypothesis of ''representational redescription'' (Karmiloff-Smith 1979; 1992). In addition, the most distinctive features of human cognition - language and culture - may themselves be viewed as adaptations enabling this representation/computation trade-off to be pursued on an even grander scale.
149	connectionism	2008	Frewen, PA; Dozois, DJA; Joanisse, MF; Neufeld, RWJ	Selective attention to threat versus reward: Meta-analysis and neural-network modeling of the dot-probe task	CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	Two decades of research conducted to date has examined selective visual attention to threat and reward stimuli as a function of individual differences in anxiety using the dot-probe task. The present study tests a connectionist neural-network model of meta-analytic and key individual-study results derived from this literature. Attentional bias for threatening and reward-related stimuli is accounted for by connectionist model implementation of the following clinical psychology and affective neuroscience principles: 1) affective learning and temperament, 2) state and trait anxiety, 3) intensity appraisal, 4) affective chronometry, 5) attentional control, and 6) selective attention training. Theoretical implications for the study of mood and anxiety disorders are discussed. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
150	connectionism	1994	SEIDENBERG, MS; PLAUT, DC; PETERSEN, AS; MCCLELLAND, JL; MCRAE, K	NONWORD PRONUNCIATION AND MODELS OF WORD RECOGNITION	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Nonword pronunciation is a form of generalization behavior that has been at the center of debates about models of word recognition, the role of rules in explaining behavior, and the adequacy of the parallel distributed processing approach. An experiment yielded data concerning the pronunciation of a large corpus of nonwords. The data were then used to assess 2 models of naming: a model developed by D. C. Plaut and J. L. McClelland (1993), which is similar to the one described by M. S. Seidenberg and J. L. McClelland (1989) but uses improved orthographic and phonological representations, and the grapheme-phoneme correspondence rules of M. Coltheart, B. Curtis, P. Atkins, and M. Haller's (1993) dual-route model. Both models generate plausible nonword pronunciations and match subjects' responses accurately. The dual-route model does so by using rules that generate correct output for most words but mispronounce a significant number of exceptions. The parallel distributed processing model does so by finding a set of weights that allow it to generate correct output for both ''rule-governed'' items and exceptions. Some ways in which the two approaches differ and other issues facing them are also discussed.
151	connectionism	1999	Munte, TF; Say, T; Clahsen, H; Schiltz, K; Kutas, M	Decomposition of morphologically complex words in English: evidence from event-related brain potentials	COGNITIVE BRAIN RESEARCH	To explain processing differences between regular (e.g., start/started) and irregular (e.g., think/thought) word formation linguistic models posit either a single mechanism handling both morphological clusters or separate mechanisms for regular and irregular words. The purpose of the present study is to investigate how these processing differences map onto brain processes by assessing electrophysiological effects of English past tense forms, using the repetition priming paradigm. Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded from 59 scalp sites as 19 subjects read stem forms of regular and irregular verbs from a List of 1152 words; the stem forms were either preceded (5-9 intervening items) by their past tense forms (= primed condition) or by past tense forms of unrelated verbs (= unprimed condition). The difference between the ERPs to the primed and unprimed stems was taken as a measure of morphological priming. We found that the ERPs to regular verbs were clearly different from those to irregular verbs: the former were associated with an N400 reduction in the primed condition; primed irregular verb stems, however, showed no such effect. Control conditions demonstrated that the N400 modulation for regular verbs cannot be attributed to formal (i.e., phonological or orthographical) priming. These ERP effects indicate that regular verbs serve as more powerful primes for their corresponding stem forms than irregular past tense forms, suggesting that regular (but not irregular) past tense forms may be decomposed into stem plus affix. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
152	connectionism	1990	RASMUSSEN, S; KARAMPURWALA, H; VAIDYANATH, R; JENSEN, KS; HAMEROFF, S	COMPUTATIONAL CONNECTIONISM WITHIN NEURONS - A MODEL OF CYTOSKELETAL AUTOMATA SUBSERVING NEURAL NETWORKS	PHYSICA D	0
153	connectionism	1998	MacWhinney, B	Models of the emergence of language	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY	Recent work in language acquisition has shown bow linguistic form emerges from the operation of self-organizing systems. The emergentist framework emphasizes ways in which the formal structures of language emerge from the interaction of social patterns, patterns implicit in the input, and pressures arising from general aspects of the cognitive system. Emergentist models have been developed to study the acquisition of auditory and articulatory patterns during infancy and the ways in which the learning of the first words emerges from the linkage of auditory, articulatory and conceptual systems. Neural network models have also been used to study the learning of inflectional markings and basic syntactic patterns, using both neural network modeling and concepts from the study of dynamic systems, it is possible to analyze language learning as the integration of emergent dynamic systems.
154	connectionism	2010	Mitchell, J; Lapata, M	Composition in Distributional Models of Semantics	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Vector-based models of word meaning have become increasingly popular in cognitive science. The appeal of these models lies in their ability to represent meaning simply by using distributional information under the assumption that words occurring within similar contexts are semantically similar. Despite their widespread use, vector-based models are typically directed at representing words in isolation, and methods for constructing representations for phrases or sentences have received little attention in the literature. This is in marked contrast to experimental evidence (e. g., in sentential priming) suggesting that semantic similarity is more complex than simply a relation between isolated words. This article proposes a framework for representing the meaning of word combinations in vector space. Central to our approach is vector composition, which we operationalize in terms of additive and multiplicative functions. Under this framework, we introduce a wide range of composition models that we evaluate empirically on a phrase similarity task.
155	connectionism	2003	Spencer, JP; Schoner, G	Bridging the representational gap in the dynamic systems approach to development	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	We describe the relationship between the dynamic systems approach to development and a recent approach to the dynamics of representational states - the dynamic field approach. Both approaches share an emphasis on the concepts of stability (attractor states), instability (especially bifurcations), soft-assembly and flexibility. But the dynamic field approach adds the concept of activation' to capture the strength with which behaviorally relevant information is specified. By explicitly linking these dynamic systems approaches, we allow for more direct comparisons between dynamic systems theory and connectionism. We note three current differences between these two approaches to development: (1) the notion of stability is central to how representational states are conceptualized in the dynamic field approach; (2) the dynamic field approach is more directly concerned with the sensorimotor origins of cognition; and (3) the dynamic approach is less advanced with regard to learning. We conclude that proponents of the two approaches can learn from the respective strengths of each approach. We suspect these differences will largely disappear in the next 20 years.
156	connectionism	1994	STONE, GO; VANORDEN, GC	BUILDING A RESONANCE FRAMEWORK FOR WORD RECOGNITION USING DESIGN AND SYSTEM PRINCIPLES	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Basic elements of a principle-based approach to model development are presented. The approach is needed to understand the operation of models capable of complex behavior. The use of principles facilitatates both assignment of explanatory credit and blame when testing models and guides refinement of models when they fail. Two types of principles are distinguished: design and system. Design principles relate model behavior to observable human behavior. System principles relate model behavior to assumptions about a model's formal structure (architectural axioms). The use of, and relationship between, such principles is illustrated by building the theoretical framework of resonance (S. Grossberg and G. O. Stone, 1986) through the successive addition of principles.
157	connectionism	2007	Gonnerman, LM; Seidenberg, MS; Andersen, ES	Graded semantic and phonological similarity effects in priming: Evidence for a distributed connectionist approach to morphology	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	A considerable body of empirical and theoretical research suggests that morphological structure governs the representation of words in memory and that many words are decomposed into morphological components in processing. The authors investigated an alternative approach in which morphology arises from the interaction of semantic and phonological codes. A series of cross-modal lexical decision experiments shows that the magnitude of priming reflects the degree of semantic and phonological overlap between words. Crucially, moderately similar items produce intermediate facilitation (e.g., lately-late). This pattern is observed for word pairs exhibiting different types of morphological relationships, including suffixed-stem (e.g., teacher-teach), suffixed-suffixed (e.g., saintly-sainthood) and prefixed-stem pairs (preheat-heat). The results can be understood in terms of connectionist models that use distributed representations rather than discrete morphemes.
158	connectionism	2001	Solomon, KO; Barsalou, LW	Representing properties locally	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Theories of knowledge such as feature lists, semantic networks, and localist neural nets typically use a single global symbol to represent a property that occurs in multiple concepts. Thus, a global symbol represents maize across HORSE, PONY, and LION. Alternatively, perceptual theories of knowledge, as well as distributed representational systems, assume that properties take different local forms in different concepts. Thus, different local forms of inane exist for HORSE, PONY, and LION, each capturing the specific form that inane takes in its respective concept. Three experiments used the property verification task to assess whether properties are represented globally or locally (e.g., Does a PONY have mane?). If a single global form represents a property, then verifying it in any concept should increase its accessibility and speed its verification later in any other concept Verifying mane for PONY should benefit as much from having verified mane for LION earlier as from verifying inane for HORSE. If properties are represented locally, however, verifying a property should only benefit from verifying a similar form earlier. Verifying inane for PONY should only benefit from verifying mane for HORSE, not from verifying mane for LION. Findings from three experiments strongly supported local property representation and ruled out the interpretation that object similarity was responsible (e.g., the greater overall similarity between HORSE and PONY than between LION and PONY). The findings further suggest that property representation and verification are complicated phenomena, grounded in sensory-motor simulations. (C) 2001 Academic Press.
159	connectionism	1990	FARMER, JD	A ROSETTA STONE FOR CONNECTIONISM	PHYSICA D	0
160	connectionism	2003	Anderson, JR; Lebiere, C	The Newell Test for a theory of cognition	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Newell (1980; 1990) proposed that cognitive theories be developed in an effort to satisfy multiple criteria and to avoid theoretical myopia. He provided two overlapping lists of 13 criteria that the human cognitive architecture would have to satisfy in order to be functional. We have distilled these into 12 criteria: flexible behavior, real-time performance, adaptive behavior, vast knowledge base, dynamic behavior, knowledge integration, natural language, learning, development, evolution, and brain realization. There would be greater theoretical progress if we evaluated theories by a broad set of criteria such as these and attended to the weaknesses such evaluations revealed. To illustrate how theories can be evaluated we apply these criteria to both classical connectionism (McClelland Rumelhart 1986; Rumelhart & McClelland 1986b) and the ACT-R theory (Anderson & Lebiere 1998). The strengths of classical connectionism on this test derive from its intense effort in addressing empirical phenomena in such domains as language and cognitive development. Its weaknesses derive from its failure to acknowledge a symbolic level to thought. In contrast, ACT-R includes both symbolic and subsymbolic components. The strengths of the ACT-R theory derive from its tight integration of the symbolic component with the subsymbolic component. Its weaknesses largely derive from its failure, as yet, to adequately engage in intensive analyses of issues related to certain criteria on Newell's list.
161	connectionism	1999	Meltzoff, AN	Origins of theory of mind, cognition and communication	JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION DISORDERS	There has been a revolution in our understanding of infant and toddler cognition that promises to have far-reaching implications for our understanding of communicative and linguistic development. Four empirical findings that helped to prompt this change in theory are analyzed: (a) Intermodal coordination-newborns operate with multimodal information, recognizing equivalences in information across sensory-modalities; (b) Imitation-newborns imitate the lip and tongue movements they see others perform; (c) Memory-young infants form long-lasting representations of perceived events and use these memories to generate motor productions after lengthy delays in novel contexts; (d) Theory of mind-by 18 months of age toddlers have adopted a theory of mind, reading below surface behavior to the goals and intentions in people's actions. This paper examines three views currently being offered in the literature to replace the classical framework of early cognitive development: modularity-nativism connectionism, and theory-theory. Arguments are marshaled to support the "theory-theory" view. This view emphasizes a combination of innate structure and qualitative reorganization in children's thought based on input from the people and things in their culture. It is suggested that preverbal cognition forms a substrate for language acquisition and that analyzing cognition may enhance our understanding of certain disorders of communication. (C) 1999 by Elsevier Science Inc.
162	connectionism	1996	Omlin, CW; Giles, CL	Constructing deterministic finite-state automata in recurrent neural networks	JOURNAL OF THE ACM	Recurrent neural networks that are trained to behave like deterministic finite-state automata (DFAs) can show deteriorating performance when tested on long strings. This deteriorating performance can be attributed to the instability of the internal representation of the learned DFA states. The use of a sigmoidal discriminant function together with the recurrent structure contribute to this instability. We prove that a simple algorithm can construct second-order recurrent neural networks with a sparse interconnection topology and sigmoidal discriminant function such that the internal DFA state representations are stable, that is, the constructed network correctly classifies strings of arbitrary length. The algorithm is based on encoding strengths of weights directly into the neural network. We derive a relationship between the weight strength and the number of DFA states for robust string classification. For a DFA with n states and m input alphabet symbols, the constructive algorithm generates a ''programmed'' neural network with O(n) neurons and O(mn) weights. We compare our algorithm to other methods proposed in the literature.
163	connectionism	2004	Huang, DS	A constructive approach for finding arbitrary roots of polynomials by neural networks	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NETWORKS	This paper proposes a constructive approach for finding arbitrary (real or complex) roots of arbitrary (real or complex) Polynomials by multilayer perceptron network (MLPN) using constrained learning algorithm (CLA), which encodes the a priori information of constraint relations between root moments and coefficients of a polynomial into the usual BP algorithm (BPA). Moreover, the root moment method (RMM) is also simplified into a recursive version so that the computational complexity can be further decreased, which leads the roots of those higher order polynomials to be readily found. In addition, an adaptive learning parameter with the CLA is also proposed in this paper; an initial weight selection method is also given. Finally, several experimental results show that our proposed neural connectionism approaches, with respect to the nonneural ones, are more efficient and feasible in finding the arbitrary roots of arbitrary polynomials.
164	connectionism	2009	Bowers, JS	On the Biological Plausibility of Grandmother Cells: Implications for Neural Network Theories in Psychology and Neuroscience	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A fundamental claim associated with parallel distributed processing (PDP) theories of cognition is that knowledge is coded in a distributed manner in mind and brain. This approach rejects the claim that knowledge is coded in a localist fashion, with words, objects, and simple concepts (e.g. "dog"). that is, coded with their own dedicated representations. One of the putative advantages of this approach is that the theories are biologically plausible. Indeed, advocates of the PDP approach often highlight the close parallels between distributed representations learned in connectionist models and neural coding in brain and often dismiss localist (grandmother cell) theories as biologically implausible. The author reviews a range a data that strongly challenge this claim and shows that localist models provide a better account of single-cell recording studies. The author also contrast local and alternative distributed coding schemes (sparse and coarse coding) and argues that common rejection of grandmother cell theories in neuroscience is due to a misunderstanding about how localist models behave. The author concludes that the localist representations embedded in theories of perception and cognition are consistent with neuroscience biology only calls into question the distributed representations Often learned in PDP models.
165	connectionism	2003	Casebeer, WD	Natural Ethical Facts: Evolution, Connectionism, and Moral Cognition	NATURAL ETHICAL FACTS: EVOLUTION, CONNECTIONISM, AND MORAL COGNITION	0
166	connectionism	1999	O'Brien, G; Opie, J	A connectionist theory of phenomenal experience	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	When cognitive scientists apply computational theory to the problem of phenomenal consciousness, as many have been doing recently, there are two fundamentally distinct approaches available. Consciousness is to be explained either in terms of the nature of the representational vehicles the brain deploys or in terms of the computational processes defined over these vehicles. We call versions of these two approaches vehicle and process theories of consciousness, respectively. However, although there may be space for vehicle theories of consciousness in cognitive science, they are relatively rare. This is because of the influence exerted, on the one hand, by a large body of research that purports to show that the explicit representation of information in the brain and conscious experience are dissociable, and on the other, by the classical computational theory of mind - the theory that takes human cognition to be a species of symbol manipulation. Two recent developments in cognitive science combine to suggest that a reappraisal of this situation is in order. First, a number of theorists have recently been highly critical of the experimental methodologies used in the dissociation studies - so critical, in fact, that it is no longer reasonable to assume that the dissociability of conscious experience and explicit representation has been adequately demonstrated. Second, classicism, as a theory of human cognition, is no longer as dominant in cognitive science as it once was. It now has a lively competitor in form of connectionism; and connectionism, unlike classicism, does not have the computational resources to support a robust vehicle theory of consciousness. In this target article we develop and defend this connectionist vehicle theory of consciousness. It takes the form of the following simple empirical hypothesis: phenomenal experience consists of the explicit representation of information in neurally realized parallel distributed processing (PDP) networks. This hypothesis leads us to reassess some common wisdom about consciousness, but, we argue, in fruitful and ultimately plausible ways.
167	connectionism	1997	Thimm, G; Fiesler, E	High-order and multilayer perceptron initialization	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NETWORKS	Proper initialization is one of the most important prerequisites for fast convergence of feedforward neural networks like high-order and multilayer perceptrons. This publication aims at determining the optimal variance (or range) for the initial weights and biases, which is the principal parameter of random initialization methods for both types of neural networks, An overview of random weight initialization methods for multilayer perceptrons is presented, These methods are extensively tested using eight real-world benchmark data sets and a broad range of initial weight variances by means of more than 30 000 simulations, in the aim to find the best weight initialization method for multilayer perceptrons. For high-order networks, a large number of experiments (more than 200 000 simulations) was performed, using three weight distributions, three activation functions, several network orders, and the same eight data sets, The results of these experiments are compared to weight initialization techniques for multilayer perceptrons, which leads to the proposal of a suitable initialization method for high-order perceptrons. The conclusions on the initialization methods for both types of networks are justified by sufficiently small confidence intervals of the mean convergence times.
168	connectionism	2001	Friston, KJ; Price, CJ	Dynamic representations and generative models of brain function	BRAIN RESEARCH BULLETIN	The main point made in this article is; that the representational capacity and inherent function of any neuron, neuronal population or cortical area is dynamic and! context-sensitive. This adaptive rand contextual specialisation is mediated by functional integration or interactions among brain systems with a special emphasis on backwards or top-down connections. The critical notion is that neuronal responses, in any given cortical area, can represent different things at different times, Our argument is developed under the perspective of generative models of functional brain architectures, where higher-level systems provide a prediction of the inputs to lower-level regions. Conflict between the two is resolved by changes in the higher-level representations, driven by the resulting error in lower regions, until the mismatch is 'cancelled', In this model the specialisation of any region is determined both by bottom-up driving inputs and by top-down predictions. Specialisation is therefore not an intrinsic property of any region but depends on both forward and backward connections with other areas. Because these other areas have access to the context in which the inputs are generated they are in a position to modulate the selectivity or specialisation of lower areas. The implications for 'classical' models (e,g., classical receptive fields in electrophysiology, classical specialisation in neuroimaging and connectionism in cognitive models) are severe and suggest these models provide incomplete accounts of real brain architectures, Generative models represent a far more plausible framework for understanding selective neurophysiological responses and how representations are constructed in the brain. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Inc.
169	connectionism	1997	Lai, S; Serra, M	Concrete strength prediction by means of neural network	CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDING MATERIALS	In this article a model is developed, based on neurocomputing, for predicting, with sufficient approximation, the compressive strength of cement conglomerates. First, the principles of connectionism are briefly recalled. Some neural networks are then constructed in which the different mix-design parameters of a variety of cement conglomerates, i.e. the compressive strength, are associated. The experimental data obtained during construction of the 'Alto Sulcis Thermal Power Station' at Portovesme, Italy, were used in the tests. The availability of a substantial amount of data enabled the method to be suitably calibrated and satisfactory results were obtained for evaluating the mechanical properties of different concrete mixes. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.
170	connectionism	1992	ALEXANDER, GE; DELONG, MR; CRUTCHER, MD	DO CORTICAL AND BASAL GANGLIONIC MOTOR AREAS USE MOTOR PROGRAMS TO CONTROL MOVEMENT	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Prevailing engineering-inspired theories of motor control based on sequential/algorithmic or motor-programming models are difficult to reconcile with what is known about the anatomy and physiology of the motor areas. This is partly because of certain problems with the theories themselves and partly because of features of the cortical and basal ganglionic motor circuits that seem ill-suited for most engineering analyses of motor control. Recent developments in computational neuroscience offer more realistic, that is, connectionist, models of motor processing. The distributed, highly parallel, and nonalgorithmic processes in these models are inherently, self-organizing and hence more plausible biologically than their more traditional algorithmic or motor-programming counterparts. The newer models also have the potential to explain some of the unique features of natural, brain-based motor behavior and to avoid some of the computational dilemmas associated with engineering approaches.
171	connectionism	1992	POSNER, MI; CARR, TH	LEXICAL ACCESS AND THE BRAIN - ANATOMICAL CONSTRAINTS ON COGNITIVE MODELS OF WORD RECOGNITION	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	Recent studies in the cognitive psychology of reading and many other skilled performances have been dominated by models inspired by neural connectivity (e.g., McClelland & Rumelhart, 1986). Such models have not yet begun to consider the accumulating evidence of considerable anatomical localization of component cognitive operations in the human brain (e.g., Posner, Petersen, Fox, & Raichle, 1988). In this article we apply anatomical findings to the job of building computational models of visual word recognition. Brain imaging studies already provide important constraints on how lexical access should be defined in terms of isolable encoding operations that compute the visual form, phonology, and semantics of words. Brain imaging studies also speak to issues of modularity versus interaction between these encoding operations, distribution versus localization of processing within the operations, and orchestration of operations to accomplish different word processing tasks. We conclude that a combined cognitive and anatomical analysis may be of considerable benefit in developing more adequate models of human information processing.
172	connectionism	2000	Markman, AB; Dietrich, E	In defense of representation	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	The computational paradigm, which has dominated psychology and artificial intelligence since the cognitive revolution, has been a source of intense debate. Recently, several cognitive scientists have argued against this paradigm, not by objecting to computation, but rather by objecting to the notion of representation. Our analysis of these objections reveals that it is not the notion of representation per se that is causing the problem, but rather specific properties of representations as they are used in various psychological theories. Our analysis suggests that all theorists accept the idea that cognitive processing involves internal information-carrying states that mediate cognitive processing. These mediating states are a superordinate category of representations. We discuss five properties that can he added to mediating states and examine their importance in various cognitive models. Finally, three methodological lessons are drawn from our analysis and discussion. (C) 2000 Academic Press.
173	connectionism	2005	Bybee, J; Mcclelland, JL	Alternatives to the combinatorial paradigm of linguistic theory based on domain general principles of human cognition	LINGUISTIC REVIEW	It is argued that the principles needed to explain linguistic behavior are domain-general and based on the impact that specific experiences have on the mental organization and representation of language. This organization must be sensitive to both specific information and generalized patterns. In addition, knowledge of language is highly sensitive to frequency of use: frequently-used linguistic sequences become more frequent, more accessible and better integrated. The evidence adduced is mainly from phonology and morphology and addresses the issue of gradience and specificity found in postulated units, categories, and dichotomies such as regular and irregular but the points apply to all levels of linguistic analysis including the syntactic, semantic, and discourse levels. Appropriate models for representing such phenomena are considered, including exemplar models and connectionist models, which are evolving to achieve a better fit with linguistic data. The major criticism of connectionist models often raised from, within the combinatorial paradigm of much existing linguistic theory - that they do not capture free combination' to the extent that rule-based systems do, is regarded as a strength rather than a weakness. Recent connectionist models exhibit greater productivity and systematicity than earlier variants, but still show less uniformity of generalization than combinatorial models do. The remaining non-uniformity that the connectionist models show is appropriate, given that such non-uniformity is the rule in language structure and language behavior.
174	connectionism	2002	Westen, D; Gabbard, GO	Developments in cognitive neuroscience: I. Conflict, compromise, and connectionism	JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN PSYCHOANALYTIC ASSOCIATION	The strength of psychoanalysis has always been its understanding of affect and motivation. Contemporary developments in cognitive neuroscience offer possibilities of integrating sophisticated, experimentally informed models of thought and memory with an understanding of dynamically and clinically meaningful processes. Aspects of contemporary theory and research in cognitive neuroscience are integrated with psychoanalytic theory and technique, particularly theories of conflict and compromise. After a description of evolving models of the mind in cognitive neuroscience, several issues relevant to psychoanalytic theory and practice are addressed. These include the nature of representations, the interaction of cognition and affect, and the mechanisms by which the mind unconsciously forges compromise solutions that best fit multiple cognitive and affective-motivational constraints.
175	connectionism	1998	Andrews, S; Scarratt, DR	Rule and analogy mechanisms in reading nonwords: Hough Dou Peapel Rede Gnew Wirds?	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	In Experiment 1, participants read a long list of nonwords and made ratings of pronunciation variability. Experiment 2 compared speeded naming of nonwords presented alone or mixed with words. In both experiments, at least 85% of nonwords based on inconsistent word bodies were pronounced according to spelling-sound rules, but regular pronunciations were assigned to only 30-40% of nonwords with no regular word-body neighbors. Contradicting the prediction of parallel-distributed-processing models of nonword naming, the probability of an irregular pronunciation was a function of the proportion of irregular word neighbors, not the frequency of these neighbors. The dual-route cascade model overestimated the proportion of regular nonword pronunciations but successfully predicted the particular nonwords most likely to be pronounced irregularly. These results highlight the issues that must be addressed in future refinements of models of nonword naming.
176	connectionism	1987	SCHNEIDER, W	CONNECTIONISM - IS IT A PARADIGM SHIFT FOR PSYCHOLOGY	BEHAVIOR RESEARCH METHODS INSTRUMENTS & COMPUTERS	0
177	connectionism	2005	Endress, AD; Scholl, BJ; Mehler, J	The role of salience in the extraction of algebraic rules	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Recent research suggests that humans and other animals have sophisticated abilities to extract both statistical dependencies and rule-based regularities from sequences. Most of this research stresses the flexibility and generality of such processes. Here the authors take up an equally important project, namely, to explore the limits of such processes. As a case study for rule-based generalizations, the authors demonstrate that only repetition-based structures with repetitions at the edges of sequences (e.g., ABCDEFF but not ABCDDEF) can be reliably generalized, although token repetitions can easily be discriminated at both sequence edges and middles. This finding suggests limits on rule-based sequence learning and new interpretations of earlier work alleging rule learning in infants. Rather than implementing a computerlike, formal process that operates over all patterns equally well, rule-based learning may be a highly constrained and piecemeal process driven by perceptual primitives-specialized type operations that are highly sensitive to perceptual factors.
178	connectionism	1993	LEWANDOWSKY, S	THE REWARDS AND HAZARDS OF COMPUTER-SIMULATIONS	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Although computer simulations and other modeling tools have assumed a pivotal role in cognitive psychology, their utility continues to be questioned by some psychologists. This article presents several examples that illustrate both rewards and potential hazards associated with the simulation approach. Simulations can provide the formal framework necessary to disambiguate new ideas, they can explore the implications of complex models, and they can predict seemingly counterintuitive findings or uncover hidden relationships. At the same time, care must be taken to avoid pitfalls that may arise when computer code inadvertently differs from the intended specifications of a theory, or when predictions derive not from fundamental properties of a theory but from pragmatic choices made by the modeler.
179	connectionism	1993	FREYD, JJ	5 HUNCHES ABOUT PERCEPTUAL PROCESSES AND DYNAMIC REPRESENTATIONS	ATTENTION AND PERFORMANCE	0
180	connectionism	2005	Pinker, S	So how Does the mind work ?	MIND & LANGUAGE	In my book How the Mind Works, I defended the theory that the human mind is a naturally selected system of organs of computation. Jerry Fodor claims that 'the mind doesn't work that way'(in a book with that title) because (1) Turing Machines cannot duplicate humans' ability to perform abduction (inference to the best explanation); (2) though a massively modular system could succeed at abduction, such a system is implausible on other grounds; and (3) evolution adds nothing to our understanding of the mind. In this review I show that these arguments are flawed. First, my claim that the mind is a computational system is different from the claim Fodor attacks (that the mind has the architecture of a Turing Machine); therefore the practical limitations of Turing Machines are irrelevant. Second, Fodor identifies abduction with the cumulative accomplishments of the scientific community over millennia. This is very different from the accomplishments of human common sense, so the supposed gap between human cognition and computational models may be illusory. Third, my claim about biological specialization, as seen in organ systems, is distinct from Fodor's own notion of encapsulated modules, so the limitations of the latter are irrelevant. Fourth, Fodor's arguments dismissing of the relevance of evolution to psychology are unsound.
181	connectionism	1998	Marcus, GF	Can connectionism save constructivism?	COGNITION	Constructivism is the Piagetian notion that learning leads the child to develop new types of representations. For example, on the Piagetian view, a child is born without knowing that objects persist in time even when they are occluded; through a process of learning, the child comes to know that objects persist in time. The trouble with this view has always been the lack of a concrete, computational account of how a learning mechanism could lead to such a change. Recently, however, in a book entitled Rethinking Innateness, Elman et al. (Elman, J.L., Bates, E., Johnson, M.H., Karmiloff-Smith. A., Parisi, D., Plunkett, E;., 1996. Rethinking Innateness: A Connectionist Perspective on Development. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press) have claimed that connectionist models might provide an account of the development of new kinds of representations that would not depend on the existence of innate representations. I show that the models described in Rethinking Innateness depend on innately assumed representations and that they do not offer a genuine alternative to nativism. Moreover, I present simulation results which show that these models are incapable of deriving genuine abstract representations that are not presupposed. I then give a formal account of why the models fail to generalize in the ways that humans do. Thus, connectionism, at least in its current form, does not provide any support for constructivism. I conclude by sketching a possible alternative. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
182	connectionism	1997	Jansen, BRJ; vanderMaas, HLJ	Statistical test of the rule assessment methodology by latent class analysis	DEVELOPMENTAL REVIEW	A problem of Siegler's (1981) rule assessment methodology is that the assignment of subjects to rules takes place by an arbitrary criterion. This problem can be solved by latent class analysis by which we can test statistically how many rules are needed to fit the data and which these rules are. Two data sets of the balance scale test are analyzed, The first empirical data set stems from a study of Van Maanen, Been Bi Sijtsma (1989) and consists of 484 subjects in Grade 7 and Grade 8. The second data set is derived from the simulation of the PDP model of McClelland (1989). According to McClelland and Jenkins (1991), this connectionistic model simulates the saltatory acquisition of rules for tasks like the balance scale. The fit of the latent class models to the empirical data shows that rules can be found, that some are different from the ones Siegler proposes, that the correct rule is not acquired by the subjects in this sample, and that the rules in the transitional period are difficult to identify. The latent class models do not fit the PDP data, indicating that the behavior of the PDP model can not be characterized by rules. (C) 1997 Academic Press.
183	connectionism	1997	Berent, I; Shimron, J	The representation of Hebrew words: Evidence from the obligatory contour principle	COGNITION	The Hebrew root morpheme typically consists of three consonants. Hebrew allows a gemination of a root consonant, but constrains its location [McCarthy, J. (1979). Formal problems in semitic phonology and morphology. Cambridge, MA; MTT Ph.D. dissertation. Distributed by Indiana University Linguistics Club. Garland Press, New York, 1985], A gemination of a root-consonant is permitted at the end of the root (e.g., [mss]), but not at its beginning (e.g., [ssm]). Two experiments examined readers' sensitivity to the structure of the root morpheme by obtaining ratings for nonwords derived from nonroots. Root-initial gemination (e.g., [ssm]) was judged unacceptable compared to root-final gemination (e.g., [mss]) or no gemination controls (e.g., [psm]). The sensitivity to root structure emerged regardless of the position of the root in the word. These results have several implications. (I) Our findings demonstrate morphological decomposition. Hebrew speakers' ratings reflect a phonological constraint on the location of geminates. Being the domain of this constraint, the root morpheme must form a separate constituent in the representation of Hebrew words. (2) The rejection of root-initial gemination supports the psychological reality of the Obligatory Contour Principle, a pivotal constraint in autosegmental phonology. (3) A sensitivity to the location of geminates presupposes a distinction between the representation of geminate and nongeminate bigrams. Such a distinction, however, requires the implementation of a symbol. Our findings converge with numerous linguistic evidence in suggesting that the representation of constituency structure is necessary to account for linguistic generalizations. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.
184	connectionism	1997	Bucci, W	Symptoms and symbols: A multiple code theory of somatization	PSYCHOANALYTIC INQUIRY	0
185	connectionism	2010	Glockner, A; Betsch, T; Schindler, N	Coherence Shifts in Probabilistic Inference Tasks	JOURNAL OF BEHAVIORAL DECISION MAKING	The fast-and-frugal heuristics approach to probabilistic inference assumes that individuals often employ simple heuristics to integrate cue information that commonly function in a non-reciprocal fashion. Specifically, the subjective validity of a certain cue remains stable during the application of a heuristic and is not changed by the presence or absence of another cue. The parallel constraint satisfaction (PCS) model, in contrast, predicts that information is processed in a reciprocal fashion. Specifically, it assumes that subjective cue validities interactively affect each other and are modified to coherently support the favored choice. Corresponding to the model's simulation, we predicted the direction and the size of such coherence shifts. Cue validities were measured before, after (Experiment 1), and during judgment (Experiments 2 and 3). Coherence shifts were found in environments involving real-world cue knowledge (weather forecasts) and in a domain for which the application of fast-and-frugal heuristics has been demonstrated (city-size tasks). The results indicate that subjective cue validities are not fixed parameters, but that they are interactively changed to form coherent representations of the task. Copyright (C) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
186	connectionism	2003	Thelen, E; Bates, E	Connectionism and dynamic systems: are they really different?	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	We propose that connectionism and dynamic systems theory are strong contenders for a general theory of development that holds true whatever the content domain. We illustrate, through our own career narratives, the origins of these theories in motor and language development. We situate connectionism and dynamic systems among other classic and contemporary theories and conclude that, although there are meaningful differences, these differences pale in relation to the shared assumptions about the fundamental processes and mechanisms of change.
187	connectionism	1992	MURRE, JMJ; PHAF, RH; WOLTERS, G	CALM - CATEGORIZING AND LEARNING MODULE	NEURAL NETWORKS	A new procedure (CALM:  Categorizing and Learning Module) is introduced for unsupervised learning in modular neural networks.  The work described addresses a number of problems in connectionist modeling, such as lack of speed, lack of stability, inability to learn either with or without supervision, and the inability to both discriminate between and generalize over patterns.  CALM is a single module that can be used to construct larger networks.  A CALM module consists of pairs of excitatory Representation- and inhibitory Veto-nodes, and an Arousal-node.  Because of the fixed internal wiring pattern of a module, the Arousal-node is sensitive to the novelty of the input pattern.  The activation of the Arousal-node determines two psychologically motivated types of learning operating in the module:  elaboration learning, which implies a high learning rate and the distribution of nonspecific, random activations in the module, and activation learning, which has only base rate learning without random activations.  The learning rule used is a modified version of a rule described by Grossberg.  The workings of CALM networks are illustrated in a number of simulations.  It is shown that a CALM module quickly reaches a categorization, even with new patterns.  Though categorization and learning are relatively fast compared to other models, CALM modules do not suffer from excessive plasticity.  They are also shown to be capable of both discriminating between and generalizing over patterns.  When presented with a pattern set exceeding the number of Representation-nodes, similar patterns are assigned to the same node.  Multi-modular simulations showed that with supervised learning an average of 1.6 presentations sufficed to learn the EXOR function.  Moreover, an unsupervised learning version of the McClelland and Rumelhart model successfully simulated a word superiority effect.  It is concluded that the incorporation of psychologically and biologically plausible structural and functional characteristics, like modularity, unsupervised (competitive) learning, and a novelty dependent learning rate, may contribute to solving some of the problems often encountered in connectionist modeling.
188	connectionism	2003	Beretta, A; Campbell, C; Carr, TH; Huang, J; Schmitt, LM; Christianson, K; Cao, Y	An ER-fMRI investigation of morphological inflection in German reveals that the brain makes a distinction between regular and irregular forms	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	The hypothesis that morphological processing is supported by a mental dictionary of stored entries plus a set of mental computations based on rules is examined using event-related fMRI. If a rules-plus-memory model (Pinker, 1999) reflects the actual organization of the language faculty, two distinct patterns of brain activation should be observed for production of German irregular and regular noun and verb inflections. If a connectionist alternative to the rules-and-memory model (Rumelhart & McClelland, 1986, and many others since), which seeks to explain the production of both irregular and regular forms within a single associative memory mechanism, is correct, there should be no neural differentiation between German regular and irregular inflection. The results we report support the existence of substantially differing patterns of activation for regulars vs. irregulars, an outcome that is consistent with the two-component rules-plus-memory account. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.
189	connectionism	2001	Hurley, S	Perception and action: Alternative views	SYNTHESE	A traditional view of perception and action makes two assumptions: that the causal flow between perception and action is primarily linear or one-way, and that they are merely instrumentally related to each other, so that each is a means to the other. Either or both of these assumptions can be rejected. Behaviorism rejects the instrumental but not the one-way aspect of the traditional view, thus leaving itself open to charges of verificationism. Ecological views reject the one-way aspect but not the instrumental aspect of the traditional view, so that perception and action are seen as instrumentally interdependent. It is argued here that a better alternative is to reject both assumptions, resulting in a two-level interdependence view in which perception and action co-depend on dynamically circular subpersonal relations and as a result may be more than merely instrumentally interdependent. This is illustrated by reference to motor theories of perception and control theories of action.
190	connectionism	2000	Hahn, U; Nakisa, RC	German inflection: Single route or dual route?	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	The German plural system has recently become a focal point for conflicting theories of language, both linguistic and cognitive. Marcus tt al. (1995) highlight the German plural as support for the dual-route account of inflectional morphology first proposed by Pinker and colleagues (Pinker & Prince, 1988). On the dual-route account, inflectional morphology is universally subserved by a symbolic rule route which deals with regular inflection and an associative memory component which deals with irregular inflection. This contrasts with single-route connectionist systems. We seek to counter supposed evidence for the dual-route account through large-scale simulations as well as through experimental data. We argue that, in its current form, the dual-route account is incapable of generating experimental data provided by Marcus et al. (1995) as support. Finally, we provide direct quantitative comparisons between single-route and dual-route models of German plural inflection and find single-route performance superior on these tests, (C) 2000 Academic Press.
191	connectionism	1994	FODOR, J	CONCEPTS - A POTBOILER	COGNITION	An informal, but revisionist, discussion of the role that the concept of a concept plays in recent theories of the cognitive mind. It is argued that the practically universal assumption that concepts are (at least partially) individuated by their roles in inferences is probably mistaken. A revival of conceptual atomism appears to be the indicated alternative.
192	connectionism	2005	Shanahan, M; Baars, B	Applying global workspace theory to the frame problem	COGNITION	The subject of this article is the frame problem, as conceived by certain cognitive scientists and philosophers of mind, notably Fodor for whom it stands as a fundamental obstacle to progress in cognitive science. The challenge is to explain the capacity of so-called informationally unencapsulated cognitive processes to deal effectively with information from potentially any cognitive domain without the burden of having to explicitly sift the relevant from the irrelevant. The paper advocates a global workspace architecture, with its ability to manage massively parallel resources in the context of a serial thread of computation, as an answer to this challenge. Analogical reasoning is given particular attention, since it exemplifies informational unencapsulation in its most extreme form. Because global workspace theory also purports to account for the distinction between conscious and unconscious information processing, the paper advances the tentative conclusion that consciousness may go hand-in-hand with a solution to the frame problem in the biological brain. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
193	connectionism	2009	Pater, J	Weighted Constraints in Generative Linguistics	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Harmonic Grammar (HG) and Optimality Theory (OT) are closely related formal frameworks for the study of language. In both, the structure of a given language is determined by the relative strengths of a set of constraints. They differ in how these strengths are represented: as numerical weights (HG) or as ranks (OT). Weighted constraints have advantages for the construction of accounts of language learning and other cognitive processes, partly because they allow for the adaptation of connectionist and statistical models. HG has been little studied in generative linguistics, however, largely due to influential claims that weighted constraints make incorrect predictions about the typology of natural languages, predictions that are not shared by the more popular OT. This paper makes the case that HG is in fact a promising framework for typological research, and reviews and extends the existing arguments for weighted over ranked constraints.
194	connectionism	1993	SEIDENBERG, MS	CONNECTIONIST MODELS AND COGNITIVE THEORY	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Connectionist models have come to play an important role in cognitive science and in cognitive neuroscience, yet their role in explaining behavior is not necessarily obvious and has generated considerable debate. Connectionism is a body of tools and ideas that can be used in different ways. It can be treated as a form of simulation modeling in which the goal is to implement preexisting theories. In this approach, connectionist models function as a kind of statistical tool, a way of analyzing a complex set of data. Connectionism can also be seen as providing a small set of general theoretical principles that apply in a variety of domains. Construed in this way, it contributes to the development of theories that are explanatory, not merely descriptive.
195	connectionism	1990	SHANKS, DR	CONNECTIONISM AND THE LEARNING OF PROBABILISTIC CONCEPTS	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY SECTION A-HUMAN EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	0
196	connectionism	2001	Eliasmith, C; Thagard, P	Integrating structure and meaning: a distributed model of analogical mapping	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In this paper we present Drama, a distributed model of analogical mapping that integrates semantic and structural constraints on constructing analogies. Specifically, Drama uses holographic reduced representations (Plate, 1994), a distributed representation scheme, to model the effects of structure and meaning on human performance of analogical mapping. Drama is compared to three symbolic models of analogy (SME, Copycat, and ACME) and one partially distributed model (LISA). We describe Drama's performance on a number of example analogies and assess the model in terms of neurological and psychological plausibility. We argue that Drama's successes are due largely to integrating structural and semantic constraints throughout the mapping process. We also claim that Drama is an existence proof of using distributed representations to model high-level cognitive phenomena. (C) 2001 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
197	connectionism	2007	Blass, RB; Carmeli, Z	The case against neuropsychoanalysis - On fallacies underlying psychoanalysis' latest scientific trend and its negative impact on psychoanalytic discourse	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PSYCHOANALYSIS	The authors offer a critical examination of the claims of the proponents of the growing neuropsychoanalytic trend, that neuroscientific findings are relevant and important for the development and justfication of psychoanalytic theory and practice. They bring to light some of the intuitions that have led to the popularity of the neuropsychoanalytic claims and the fallacies that underlie these claims and intuitions. They argue that it is crucial at this time to articulate the case against the neuropsychoanalytic trend because, underlying the debate over the relevance of neuroscience to psychoanalysis, there lies a struggle over the essential nature of psychoanalytic theory and practice. Relying on a biologistic perspective, whereby only what is biological is real, this new trend in effect offers a vision of psychoanalysis that limits the significance of the unique psychoanalytic concern with the understanding of meanings and the role of discourse in discerning and justifying these meanings.
198	connectionism	1993	GLUCK, MA; GRANGER, R	COMPUTATIONAL MODELS OF THE NEURAL BASES OF LEARNING AND MEMORY	ANNUAL REVIEW OF NEUROSCIENCE	0
199	connectionism	1995	BULLINARIA, JA; CHATER, N	CONNECTIONIST MODELING - IMPLICATIONS FOR COGNITIVE NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	We review here the logic of neuropsychological inference in the context of connectionist modelling, focusing on the inference from double dissociation to modularity of function. The results of an investigation into the effects of damage on a range of small artificial neural networks that have been trained to perform two distinct mappings (rules vs exceptions), suggest that a double dissociation is possible without modularity. However, when these studies are repeated using sufficiently larger and more distributed networks, which are presumably more psychologically and biologically relevant, double dissociations are not observed. Further analysis suggests that double dissociation between performance on rule-governed and exceptional items is only found when the contribution of individual units to the overall network performance is significant, and hence that such double dissociations are merely artefacts of scale. In large, fully distributed systems, a wide range of damage produces only a single dissociation in which the main regularities are selectively preserved. Thus, in this context, connectionism appears to create no additional problems for the traditional neuropsychological inference.
200	connectionism	2007	Endress, AD; Dehaene-Lambertz, G; Mehler, J	Perceptual constraints and the learnability of simple grammars	COGNITION	Cognitive processes are often attributed to statistical or symbolic general-purpose mechanisms. Here we show that some spontaneous generalizations are driven by specialized, highly constrained symbolic operations. We explore how two types of artificial grammars are acquired, one based on repetitions and the other on characteristic relations between tones ("ordinal" grammars). Whereas participants readily acquire repetition-based grammars, displaying early electrophysiological responses to grammar violations, they perform poorly with ordinal grammars, displaying no such electrophysiological responses. This outcome is problematic for both general symbolic and statistical models, which predict that both types of grammars should be processed equally easily. This suggests that some simple grammars are acquired using perceptual primitives rather than general-purpose mechanisms; such primitives may be elements of a "toolbox" of specialized computational heuristics, which may ultimately allow constructing a psychological theory of symbol manipulation. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
201	connectionism	1998	Mesulam, MM	From sensation to cognition	BRAIN	Sensory information undergoes extensive associative elaboration and attentional modulation as it becomes incorporated into the texture of cognition. This process occurs along a core synaptic hierarchy which includes the primary sensory, upstream unimodal, downstream unimodal, heteromodal, paralimbic and limbic zones of the cerebral cortex. Connections from one zone to another are reciprocal and allow higher synaptic levels to exert a feedback (top-down) influence upon earlier levels of processing. Each cortical area provides a nexus for the convergence of afferents and divergence of efferents. The resultant synaptic organization supports parallel as well as serial processing, and allows each sensory event to initiate multiple cognitive and behavioural outcomes. Upstream sectors of unimodal association areas encode basic features of sensation such as colour, motion, form and pitch. More complex contents of sensory experience such as objects, faces, word-forms, spatial locations and sound sequences become encoded within downstream sectors of unimodal areas by groups of coarsely tuned neurons. The highest synaptic levels of sensory-fugal processing are occupied by heteromodal, paralimbic and limbic cortices, collectively known as transmodal areas. The unique role of these areas is to bind multiple unimodal and other transmodal areas into distributed but integrated multimodal representations. Transmodal areas in the midtemporal cortex, Wernicke's area, the hippocampalentorhinal complex and the posterior parietal cortex provide critical gateways for transforming perception into recognition, word-forms into meaning, scenes and events into experiences, and spatial locations into targets for exploration. All cognitive processes arise from analogous associative transformations of similar sets of sensory inputs. The differences in the resultant cognitive operation are determined by the anatomical and physiological properties of the transmodal node that acts as the critical gateway for the dominant transformation. Interconnected sets of transmodal nodes provide anatomical and computational epicentres for large-scale neurocognitive networks. In keeping with the principles of selectively distributed processing, each epicentre of a large-scale network displays a relative specialization for a specific behavioural component of its principal neurospychological domain. The destruction of transmodal epicentres causes global impairments such as multimodal anemia, neglect and amnesia, whereas their selective disconnection from relevant unimodal areas elicits modality-specific impairments such as prosopagnosia, pure word blindness and category-specific anemias. The human brain contains at least five anatomically distinct networks. The network for spatial awareness is based on transmodal epicentres in the posterior parietal cortex and the frontal eye fields; the language network on epicentres in Wernicke's and Broca's areas; the explicit memory/emotion network on epicentres in the hippocampal-entorhinal complex and the amygdala; the face-object recognition network on epicentres in the midtemporal and temporopolar cortices; and the working memory-executive function network on epicentres in the lateral prefrontal cortex and perhaps the posterior parietal cortex. Individual sensory modalities give rise to streams of processing directed to transmodal nodes belonging to each of these networks. The fidelity of sensory channels is actively protected through approximately four synaptic levels of sensory-fugal processing. The modality-specific cortices at these four synaptic levels encode the most veridical representations of experience. Attentional, motivational and emotional modulations, including those related to working memory, novelty-seeking and mental imagery, become increasingly more pronounced within downstream components of unimodal areas, where they help to create a highly edited subjective version of the world. The prefrontal cortex plays a critical role in these attentional and emotional modulations and allows neural responses to reflect the significance rather than the surface properties of sensory events. Additional modulatory influences are exerted by the cholinergic and monoaminergic pathways of the ascending reticular activating system. Working memory, one of the most prominent manifestations of prefrontal cortex activity, prolongs the neural impact of environmental and mental events in a way that enriches the texture of consciousness. The synaptic architecture of large-scale networks and the manifestations of working memory, novelty-seeking behaviours and mental imagery collectively help to loosen the rigid stimulus-response bonds that dominate the behaviour of lower animal species. This phylogenetic trend has helped to shape the unique properties of human consciousness and to induce the emergence of second-order (symbolic) representations related to language. Through the advent of language and the resultant ability to communicate abstract concepts, the critical pacemaker for human cognitive development has shifted from the extremely slow process of structural brain evolution to the much more rapid one of distributed computations where each individual intelligence can become incorporated into an interactive lattice that promotes the transgenerational transfer and accumulation of knowledge.
202	connectionism	1996	Williams, JMG; Mathews, A; MacLeod, C	The emotional stroop task and psychopathology	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	Attentional bias is a central feature of many cognitive theories of psychopathology. One of the most frequent methods of investigating such bias has been an emotional analog of the Stroop task. In this task, participants name the colors in which words are printed, and the words vary in their relevance to each theme of psychopathology. The authors review research showing that patients are often slower to name the color of a word associated with concerns relevant to their clinical condition. They address the causes and mechanisms underlying the phenomenon, focusing on J. D. Cohen, K. Dunbar, and J. L. McClelland's (1990) parallel distributed processing model.
203	connectionism	1990	COHEN, JD; DUNBAR, K; MCCLELLAND, JL	ON THE CONTROL OF AUTOMATIC PROCESSES - A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING ACCOUNT OF THE STROOP EFFECT	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	0
204	connectionism	1993	COLTHEART, M; CURTIS, B; ATKINS, P; HALLER, M	MODELS OF READING ALOUD - DUAL-ROUTE AND PARALLEL-DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING APPROACHES	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	It has often been argued that various facts about skilled reading aloud cannot be explained by any model unless that model possesses a dual-route architecture (lexical and nonlexical routes from print to speech). This broad claim has been challenged by Seidenberg and McClelland (1989, 1990). Their model has but a single route from print to speech, yet, they contend, it can account for major facts about reading that have hitherto been claimed to require a dual-route architecture. The authors identify 6 of these major facts about reading. The 1-route model proposed by Seidenberg and McClelland can account for the first of these but not the remaining 5. Because models with dual-route architectures can explain all 6 of these basic facts about reading, the authors suggest that this remains the viable architecture for any tenable model of skilled reading and learning to read. The dual-route cascaded model, a computational version of the dual-route model, is described.
205	connectionism	2001	Dehaene, S; Naccache, L	Towards a cognitive neuroscience of consciousness: basic evidence and a workspace framework	COGNITION	This introductory chapter attempts to clarify the philosophical, empirical, and theoretical bases on which a cognitive neuroscience approach to consciousness can be founded. We isolate three major empirical observations that any theory of consciousness should incorporate, namely (1) a considerable amount of processing is possible without consciousness, (2) attention is a prerequisite of consciousness, and (3) consciousness is required for some specific cognitive tasks, including those that require durable information maintenance, novel combinations of operations, or the spontaneous generation of intentional behavior. We then propose a theoretical framework that synthesizes those facts: the hypothesis of a global neuronal workspace. This framework postulates that, at any given time, many modular cerebral networks are active in parallel and process information in an unconscious manner. An information becomes conscious, however, if the neural population that represents it is mobilized by top-down attentional amplification into a brain-scale state of coherent activity that involves many neurons distributed throughout the brain. The long-distance connectivity of these 'workspace neurons' can, when they are active for a minimal duration, make the information available to a variety of processes including perceptual categorization, longterm memorization, evaluation, and intentional action. We postulate that this global availability of information through the workspace is what we subjectively experience as a conscious state. A complete theory of consciousness should explain why some cognitive and cerebral representations can be permanently or temporarily inaccessible to consciousness, what is the range of possible conscious contents, how they map onto specific cerebral circuits, and whether a generic neuronal mechanism underlies all of them. We confront the workspace model with those issues and identify novel experimental predictions. Neurophysiological, anatomical, and brain-imaging data strongly argue for a major role of prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate, and the areas that connect to them, in creating the postulated brain-scale workspace. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
206	connectionism	1991	VALENTINE, T	A UNIFIED ACCOUNT OF THE EFFECTS OF DISTINCTIVENESS, INVERSION, AND RACE IN FACE RECOGNITION	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY SECTION A-HUMAN EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	A framework is outlined in which individual faces are assumed to be encoded as a point in a multidimensional space, defined by dimensions that serve to discriminate faces. It is proposed that such a framework can account for the effects of distinctiveness, inversion, and race on recognition of faces. Two specific models within this framework are identified:  a norm-based coding model, in which faces are encoded as vectors from a population norm or prototype; and a purely exemplar-based model. Both models make similar predictions, albeit in different ways, concerning the interactions between the effects of distinctiveness, inversion and race. These predictions were supported in five experiments in which photographs of faces served as stimuli. The norm-based coding version and the exemplar-based version of the framework cannot be distinguished on the basis of the experiments reported, but it is argued that a multidimensional space provides a useful heuristic framework to investigate recognition of faces. Finally, the relationship between the specific models is considered and an implementation in terms of parallel distributed processing is briefly discussed.
207	connectionism	2011	Yeo, BTT; Krienen, FM; Sepulcre, J; Sabuncu, MR; Lashkari, D; Hollinshead, M; Roffman, JL; Smoller, JW; Zoller, L; Polimeni, JR; Fischl, B; Liu, HS; Buckner, RL	The organization of the human cerebral cortex estimated by intrinsic functional connectivity	JOURNAL OF NEUROPHYSIOLOGY	Yeo BT, Krienen FM, Sepulcre J, Sabuncu MR, Lashkari D, Hollinshead M, Roffman JL, Smoller JW, Zollei L, Polimeni JR, Fischl B, Liu H, Buckner RL. The organization of the human cerebral cortex estimated by intrinsic functional connectivity. J Neurophysiol 106: 11251165, 2011. First published June 8, 2011; doi:10.1152/jn.00338.2011.-Information processing in the cerebral cortex involves interactions among distributed areas. Anatomical connectivity suggests that certain areas form local hierarchical relations such as within the visual system. Other connectivity patterns, particularly among association areas, suggest the presence of large-scale circuits without clear hierarchical relations. In this study the organization of networks in the human cerebrum was explored using resting-state functional connectivity MRI. Data from 1,000 subjects were registered using surface-based alignment. A clustering approach was employed to identify and replicate networks of functionally coupled regions across the cerebral cortex. The results revealed local networks confined to sensory and motor cortices as well as distributed networks of association regions. Within the sensory and motor cortices, functional connectivity followed topographic representations across adjacent areas. In association cortex, the connectivity patterns often showed abrupt transitions between network boundaries. Focused analyses were performed to better understand properties of network connectivity. A canonical sensory-motor pathway involving primary visual area, putative middle temporal area complex (MT+), lateral intraparietal area, and frontal eye field was analyzed to explore how interactions might arise within and between networks. Results showed that adjacent regions of the MT+ complex demonstrate differential connectivity consistent with a hierarchical pathway that spans networks. The functional connectivity of parietal and prefrontal association cortices was next explored. Distinct connectivity profiles of neighboring regions suggest they participate in distributed networks that, while showing evidence for interactions, are embedded within largely parallel, interdigitated circuits. We conclude by discussing the organization of these large-scale cerebral networks in relation to monkey anatomy and their potential evolutionary expansion in humans to support cognition.
208	connectionism	1991	WISE, R; CHOLLET, F; HADAR, U; FRISTON, K; HOFFNER, E; FRACKOWIAK, R	DISTRIBUTION OF CORTICAL NEURAL NETWORKS INVOLVED IN WORD COMPREHENSION AND WORD RETRIEVAL	BRAIN	Six normal volunteers were studied with positron emission tomography to identify the cortical neural networks that participate in the processing of single words.  Activity-related changes in regional cerebral blood flow were measured consecutively on 6 occasions in each subject, 2 while the subject was at rest and 4 while single word language tasks were being performed.  The data from each subject were standardized for brain shape and size, reconstructed parallel to the intercommissural line, normalized for global flow differences, and then averaged for each activation condition across the 6 subjects.  Significant areas of change in rCBF (P < 0.05, with appropriate Bonferroni corrections) between task and rest conditions were displayed with reference to the coordinates of a standard neuroanatomical atlas.  We have demonstrated that categorical judgements on heard pairs of real words activate neural networks along both superior temporal gyri, but with an anatomical distribution no different from that seen when the subjects listened to nonwords:  the tasks would appear to be very different in cognitive demands but not in terms of the distribution of activation.  However, during a verb generation task that involved thinking of verbs appropriate to heard nouns presented at a slow rate, the only temporal region activated was the left posterior superior temporal association cortex (Wernicke's area).  Further analysis showed that whereas activation in other superior temporal regions, both left and right, correlated with rates of word presentation during the 4 tasks, there was no such correlation in Wernicke's area:  evidence that this site is responsible for more than early acoustic processing.  During verb generation there was also activation of left premotor and prefrontal cortex (including Broca's area and the supplementary motor area).  The supplementary motor area is thought to be involved in the motor planning of speech.  The subjects did not vocalize during the task, and therefore it would appear that the act of retrieving words from semantic memory activates networks concerned with the production of speech sounds.  We conclude that single word comprehension and retrieval activate very different distributed regions of cerebral cortex, with Wernicke's area the only region engaged by both processes and with participation during silent word generation of networks involved in vocalization.
209	connectionism	2001	Martin, A; Chao, LL	Semantic memory and the brain: structure and processes	CURRENT OPINION IN NEUROBIOLOGY	Recent functional brain imaging studies suggest that object concepts may be represented, in part, by distributed networks of discrete cortical regions that parallel the organization of sensory and motor systems. In addition, different regions of the left lateral prefrontal cortex, and perhaps anterior temporal cortex, may have distinct roles in retrieving, maintaining and selecting semantic information.
210	connectionism	1997	Pitkanen, A; Savander, V; LeDoux, JE	Organization of intra-amygdaloid circuitries in the rat: an emerging framework for understanding functions of the amygdala	TRENDS IN NEUROSCIENCES	The amygdala is located in the medial aspects of the temporal lobe. In spite of the fact that the amygdala has been implicated in a variety of functions, ranging from attention to memory to emotion, it has not attracted neuroscientists to the same extent as its laminated neighbours, in particular the hippocampus and surrounding cortex. However, recently, principles of information processing within the amygdala, particularly in the rat, have begun to emerge from anatomical, physiological and behavioral studies. These findings suggest that after the stimulus enters the amygdala, the highly organized intra-amygdaloid circuitries provide a pathway by which the representation of a stimulus becomes distributed in parallel to various amygdaloid nuclei. As a consequence,the stimulus representation may become modulated by different functional systems, such as those mediating memories from past experience or knowledge about ongoing homeostatic states. The amygdaloid output nuclei, especially the central nucleus, receive convergent information from several other amygdaloid regions and generate behavioral responses that presumably reflect the sum of neuronal activity produced by different amygdaloid nuclei.
211	connectionism	1988	PINKER, S; PRINCE, A	ON LANGUAGE AND CONNECTIONISM - ANALYSIS OF A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING MODEL OF LANGUAGE-ACQUISITION	COGNITION	0
212	connectionism	1999	Findlay, JM; Walker, R	A model of saccade generation based on parallel processing and competitive inhibition	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	During active vision, the eyes continually scan the visual environment using saccadic scanning movements. This target article presents an information processing model for the control of these movements, with some close parallels to established physiological processes in the oculomotor system. Two separate pathways are concerned with the spatial and the temporal programming of the movement. In the temporal pathway there is spatially distributed coding and the saccade target is selected from a "salience map." Both path ways descend through a hierarchy of levels, the lower ones operating automatically. Visual onsets have automatic access to the eye control system via the lower levels. Various centres in each pathway are interconnected via reciprocal inhibition. The model accounts for a number of well-established phenomena in target-elicited saccades: the gap effect, express saccades, the remote distracter effect, and the global effect. High-level control of the pathways in tasks such as visual search and reading is discussed; it operates through spatial selection and search selection, which generally combine in an automated way. The model is examined in relation to data from patients with unilateral neglect.
213	connectionism	2004	Rogers, TT; Ralph, MAL; Garrard, P; Bozeat, S; McClelland, JL; Hodges, JR; Patterson, K	Structure and deterioration of semantic memory: A neuropsychological and computational investigation	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Wernicke (1900, as cited in G. H. Eggert, 1977) suggested that semantic knowledge arises from the interaction of perceptual representations of objects and words. The authors present a parallel distributed processing implementation of this theory, in which semantic representations emerge from mechanisms that acquire the mappings between visual representations of objects and their verbal descriptions. To test the theory, they trained the model to associate names, verbal descriptions, and visual representations of objects. When its inputs and outputs are constructed to capture aspects of structure apparent in attribute-norming experiments, the model provides an intuitive account of semantic task performance. The authors then used the model to understand the structure of impaired performance in patients with selective and progressive impairments of conceptual knowledge. Data from 4 well-known semantic tasks revealed consistent patterns that find a ready explanation in the model. The relationship between the model and related theories of semantic representation is discussed.
214	connectionism	1994	GRINVALD, A; LIEKE, EE; FROSTIG, RD; HILDESHEIM, R	CORTICAL POINT-SPREAD FUNCTION AND LONG-RANGE LATERAL INTERACTIONS REVEALED BY REAL-TIME OPTICAL IMAGING OF MACAQUE MONKEY PRIMARY VISUAL-CORTEX	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Processing of retinal images is carried out in the myriad dendritic arborizations of cortical neurons. Such processing involves complex dendritic integration of numerous inputs, and the subsequent output is transmitted to multiple targets by extensive axonal arbors. Thus far, details of this intricate processing remained unexaminable. This report describes the usefulness of real-time optical imaging in the study of population activity and the exploration of cortical dendritic processing. In contrast to single-unit recordings, optical signals primarily measure the changes in transmembrane potential of a population of neuronal elements, including the often elusive subthreshold synaptic potentials that impinge on the extensive arborization of cortical cells. By using small visual stimuli with sharp borders and realtime imaging of cortical responses, we found that shortly after its onset, cortical activity spreads from its retinotopic site of initiation, covering an area at least 10 times larger, in upper cortical layers. The activity spreads at velocities from 100 to 250 mu m/msec. Near the V1/V2 border the direct activation is anisotropic and we detected also anisotropic spread; the ''space constant'' for the spread was similar to 2.7 mm parallel to the border and similar to 1.5 mm along the perpendicular axis. In addition, we found cortical interactions between cortical activities evoked by a small ''center stimulus'' and by large ''surround stimuli'' positioned outside the classical receptive field. All of the surround stimuli used suppressed the cortical response to the center stimulus. Under some stimulus conditions iso-orientation suppression was more pronounced than orthogonal-orientation suppression. The orientation dependence of the suppression and its dependency on the size of some specific stimuli indicate that at least part of the center surround inhibitory interaction was of cortical origin. The findings reported here raise the possibility that distributed processing over a very large cortical area plays a major role in the processing of visual information by the primary visual cortex of the primate.
215	connectionism	2002	Berthoud, HR	Multiple neural systems controlling food intake and body weight	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	Discovery of the leptin receptor and its downstream peptidergic pathways has reconfirmed the crucial role of the hypothalamus in the regulation of food intake and energy balance Strategically located in the midst of the mammalian neuraxis, the hypothalamus receives at least three distinct types of relevant information via direct or indirect neural connections as well as hormone receptors and substrate sensors bestowed on hypothalamic neurons. First, the medial and to a lesser extent the lateral hypothalamus receive a rich nux of information pertaining to the internal state of relative energy repletion/depletion. Second, specific hypothalamic nuclei receive information about the behavioral state, such as diurnal clock, physical activity-level, reproductive cycle, developmental stage, as well as imminent (e g fight and flight) and chronic (e.g. infection) stressors, that can potentially impact on short-term availability of fuels and long-term energy balance Third, the hypothalamus, particularly its lateral aspects, receives information from areas in the forebrain involved in the acquisition, storage, and retrieval of sensory representations of the external food space and internal food experience, as well as from the executive forebrain involved in behavior selection and initiation. In addition, rich intrahypothalamic connections facilitate further distribution of incoming information to various hypothalamic nuclei. On the other hand, the hypothalamus has widespread neural projections to the same cortical areas it receives inputs, and many hypothalamic neurons are one synapse away from most endocrine systems and from both sympathetic and parasympathetic effector organs involved in the flux, storage, mobilization, and utilization of fuels. It is argued that processing within cortico-limbic areas and communication with hypothalamic areas are particularly important in human food intake control that is more and more guided by cognitive rather than metabolic aspects in the obesigenic environment of affluent societies A distributed neural network for the control of food intake and energy balance consisting of a central processor and several parallel processing loops is hypothesized. Detailed neurochemical, anatomical, and functional analysis of reciprocal connections of the numerous peptidergic neuron populations in the hypothalamus with extrahypothalamic brain areas will be necessary to better understand what hypothalamus, forebrain, and brainstem tell each other and who is in charge under specific conditions of internal and external nutrient availability. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd All rights reserved.
216	connectionism	2005	Engbert, R; Nuthmann, A; Richter, EM; Kliegl, R	SWIFT: A dynamical model of saccade generation during reading	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Mathematical, models,have become an important tool for understanding the control of eye movements during reading. Main goals of the development of the SWIFT model (R. Engbert, A. Longtin, & R. Kliegl, 2002) were to investigate the possibility of spatially distributed processing and to implement a general mechanism for all types of eye movements observed in reading experiments. The authors present an advanced version of SWIFT that integrates properties of the oculomotor system and effects of word recognition to explain many of the experimental phenomena faced in reading research. They propose new procedures for the estimation of model parameters and for the test of the model's performance. They also present a mathematical analysis of the dynamics of the SWIFT model. Finally, within this framework, they present an analysis of the transition from parallel to serial processing.
217	connectionism	2006	Celone, KA; Calhoun, VD; Dickerson, BC; Atri, A; Chua, EF; Miller, SL; DePeau, K; Rentz, DM; Selkoe, DJ; Blacker, D; Albert, MS; Sperling, RA	Alterations in memory networks in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: An independent component analysis	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Memory function is likely subserved by multiple distributed neural networks, which are disrupted by the pathophysiological process of Alzheimer's disease ( AD). In this study, we used multivariate analytic techniques to investigate memory-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) activity in 52 individuals across the continuum of normal aging, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and mild AD. Independent component analyses revealed specific memory-related networks that activated or deactivated during an associative memory paradigm. Across all subjects, hippocampal activation and parietal deactivation demonstrated a strong reciprocal relationship. Furthermore, we found evidence of a nonlinear trajectory of fMRI activation across the continuum of impairment. Less impaired MCI subjects showed paradoxical hyperactivation in the hippocampus compared with controls, whereas more impaired MCI subjects demonstrated significant hypoactivation, similar to the levels observed in the mild AD subjects. We found a remarkably parallel curve in the pattern of memory-related deactivation in medial and lateral parietal regions with greater deactivation in less-impaired MCI and loss of deactivation in more impaired MCI and mild AD subjects. Interestingly, the failure of deactivation in these regions was also associated with increased positive activity in a neocortical attentional network in MCI and AD. Our findings suggest that loss of functional integrity of the hippocampal-based memory systems is directly related to alterations of neural activity in parietal regions seen over the course of MCI and AD. These data may also provide functional evidence of the interaction between neocortical and medial temporal lobe pathology in early AD.
218	connectionism	2002	Eimer, M; Holmes, A	An ERP study on the time course of emotional face processing	NEUROREPORT	Using event-related brain potentials (ERPs), we investigated the time course of facial expression processing in human subjects watching photographs of fearful and neutral faces. Upright fearful faces elicited a frontocentral positivity within 120 ms after stimulus presentation, which was followed by a broadly distributed sustained positivity beyond 250 ms post-stimulus. Emotional expression effects were delayed and attenuated when faces were inverted. In contrast, the face-specific N170 component was completely unaffected by facial expression. We conclude that emotional expression analysis and the structural encoding of faces are parallel processes. Early emotional ERP modulations may reflect the rapid activation of prefrontal areas involved in the analysis of facial expression.
219	connectionism	1999	Peterson, BS; Skudlarski, P; Gatenby, JC; Zhang, HP; Anderson, AW; Gore, JC	An fMRI study of Stroop word-color interference: Evidence for cingulate subregions subserving multiple distributed attentional systems	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	Background: The goal of this study was to model the functional connectivity of the neural systems that subserve attention and impulse control. Proper performance of the Stroop Word-Color Interference Task requires both attention and impulse control. Methods: Word-color interference was studied in 34 normal adult subjects using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Results: inter-regional correlation analyses suggested that the anterior cingulate is coupled functionally with multiple regions throughout the cerebrum. A factor analysis of the significant regional activations further emphasized this functional coupling. The cingulate or related mesial frontal cortices loaded on each of the seven factors identified in the factor analysis. Other regions that loaded significantly on on these factors have been described previously as belonging to anatomically connected circuits believed to subserve sensory tuning, receptive language, vigilance, working memory, response selection motor planning, and motor response functions. These seven factors appeared to be oriented topographically within the anterior cingulate, with sensory, working memory, and vigilance functions planning, and motor response positioned progressively more caudally. Conclusions: These findings support a parallel distributed processing model for word-color interference in which portions of the anterior cingulate cortex modify the strengths of multiple neural pathways used to read and name colors. Allocation of attentional resources is thought to modify pathway strengths by reducing cross-talk between information processing modules that subserve the competing demands of reading and color naming. The functional topography of these neural systems observed within the cingulate argues for the presence of multiple attentional subsystems, each contributing to improved task performance. The topography also suggests a role for the cingulate in coordinating and integrating the activity of these multiple attentional subsystems. Biol Psychiatry 1999;45:1237-1258 (C) 1999 Society of Biological Psychiatry.
220	connectionism	2001	Haberly, LB	Parallel-distributed processing in olfactory cortex: New insights from morphological and physiological analysis of neuronal circuitry	CHEMICAL SENSES	A working hypothesis is proposed for piriform cortex (PC) and other olfactory cortical areas that redefines the traditional functional roles as follows: the olfactory bulb serves as the primary olfactory cortex by virtue of encoding 'molecular features' (structural components common to many odorant molecules) as a patchy mosaic reminiscent of the representation of simple features in primary visual cortex. The anterior olfactory cortex (that has been inappropriately termed the anterior olfactory nucleus) detects and stores correlations between olfactory features, creating representations (gestalts) for particular odorants and odorant mixtures. This function places anterior olfactory cortex at the level of secondary visual cortex. PC carries out functions that have traditionally defined association cortex-it detects and learns correlations between olfactory gestalts formed in anterior olfactory cortex and a large repertoire of behavioral, cognitive and contextual information to which it has access through reciprocal connections with prefrontal, entorhinal, perirhinal and amygdaloid areas. Using principles derived from artificial networks with biologically plausible parallel-distributed architectures and Hebbian synaptic plasticity (i.e. adjustments in synaptic strength based on locally convergent activity), functional proposals are made for PC and related cortical areas. Architectural features incorporated include extensive recurrent connectivity in anterior PC, predominantly feedforward connectivity in posterior PC and backprojections that connect distal to proximal structures in the cascade of olfactory cortical areas. Capabilities of the 'reciprocal feedforward correlation' architecture that characterizes PC and adjoining higher-order areas are discussed in some detail. The working hypothesis is preceded by a review of relevant anatomy and physiology, and a non-quantitative account of parallel-distributed principles. To increase the accessibility of findings for PC and to advertise its substantial potential as a model for experimental and modeling analysis of associative processes, parallels are described between PC and the hippocampal formation, inferotemporal visual cortex and prefrontal cortex.
221	connectionism	1995	Carter, CS; Mintun, M; Cohen, JD	Interference and facilitation effects during selective attention: An (H2O)-O-15 PET study of Stroop task performance	NEUROIMAGE	To investigate the functional anatomy of interference and facilitation during selective attention, we studied 15 normal subjects using the (H2O)-O-15 positron emission tomography technique and a computer presented single-trial Stroop task for cognitive activation. Increases in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) were observed in a network of structures that have been previously associated with selective attention, including the anterior cingulate gyrus, the frontal polar cortex, the inferior parietal lobule, and the thalamus, as well as the lingual gyrus. Furthermore rCBF decreases (compared to control states) were observed in lateral extra-striate cortex. rCBF changes in prefrontal and extra-striate regions varied with differences in the need to modulate the influence of word and color information while subjects responded to either incongruent or congruent Stroop stimuli. These results indicate the utility of Stroop procedures for investigating the functional anatomy of selective attention, Given recent interest regarding the role of the anterior cingulate gyrus in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders, our results also suggest that the Stroop task can serve as a reliable neurobehavioral probe for this region. The significance of these results for understanding processing mechanisms underlying selective attention is discussed within the framework of a parallel distributed processing model of Stroop task performance. (C) 1995 Academic Press, Inc.
222	connectionism	2001	Hunt, SP; Mantyh, PW	The molecular dynamics of pain control	NATURE REVIEWS NEUROSCIENCE	Pain is necessary for survival, but persistent pain can result in anxiety, depression and a reduction in the quality of life. The discriminative and affective qualities of pain are both thought to be regulated in an activity-dependent fashion. Recent studies have identified cells and molecules that regulate pain sensitivity and the parallel pathways that distribute nociceptive information to limbic or sensory areas of the forebrain. Here, we emphasize the cellular and neurobiological consequences of pain, especially those that are involved in the generation and maintenance of chronic pain. These new insights into pain processing will significantly alter our approach to pain control and the development of new analgesics.
223	connectionism	2007	Eimer, M; Holmes, A	Event-related brain potential correlates of emotional face processing	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Results from recent event-related brain potential (ERP) studies investigating brain processes involved in the detection and analysis of emotional facial expression are reviewed. In all experiments, emotional faces were found to trigger an increased ERP positivity relative to neutral faces. The onset of this emotional expression effect was remarkably early, ranging from 120 to 180 ms post-stimulus in different experiments where faces were either presented at fixation or laterally, and with or without non-face distractor stimuli. While broadly distributed positive deflections beyond 250 ms post-stimulus have been found in previous studies for non-face stimuli, the early frontocentrally distributed phase of this emotional positivity is most likely face-specific. Similar emotional expression effects were found for six basic emotions, suggesting that these effects are not primarily generated within neural structures specialised for the automatic detection of specific emotions. Expression effects were eliminated when attention was directed away from the location of peripherally presented emotional faces, indicating that they are not linked to pre-attentive emotional processing. When foveal faces were unattended, expression effects were attenuated, but not completely eliminated. It is suggested that these ERP correlates of emotional face processing reflect activity within a neocortical system where representations of emotional content are generated in a task-dependent fashion for the adaptive intentional control of behaviour. Given the early onset of the emotion-specific effects reviewed here, it is likely that this system is activated in parallel with the ongoing evaluation of emotional content in the amygdala and related subcortical brain circuits. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
224	connectionism	1992	DENNETT, DC; KINSBOURNE, M	TIME AND THE OBSERVER - THE WHERE AND WHEN OF CONSCIOUSNESS IN THE BRAIN	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	We compare the way two models of consciousness treat subjective timing.  According to the standard "Cartesian Theater" model, there is a place in the brain where "it all comes together," and the discriminations in all modalities are somehow put into registration and "presented" for subjective judgment.  The timing of the events in this theater determines subjective order.  According to the alternative "Multiple Drafts" model, discriminations are distributed in both space and time in the brain.  These events do have temporal properties, but those properties do not determine subjective order because there is no single, definitive "stream of consciousness," only a parallel stream of conflicting and continuously revised contents.  Four puzzling phenomena that resist explanation by the Cartesian model are analyzed:  (1) a gradual apparent motion phenomenon involving abrupt color change (Kolers & von Grunau 1976), (2) an illusion of an evenly spaced series of "hops" produced by two or more widely spaced series of taps delivered to the skin (Geldard & Sherrick's "cutaneous rabbit" [1972], (3) backwards referral in time, and (4) subjective delay of consciousness of intention (both reported in this journal by Libet 1985a; 1987; 1989a).  The unexamined assumptions that have always made the Cartesian Theater so attractive are exposed and dismantled.  The Multiple Drafts model provides a better account of the puzzling phenomena, avoiding the scientific and metaphysical extravagances of the Cartesian Theater:  The temporal order of subjective events is a product of the brain's interpretational processes, not a direct reflection of events making up those processes.
225	connectionism	1992	ANDREWS, S	FREQUENCY AND NEIGHBORHOOD EFFECTS ON LEXICAL ACCESS - LEXICAL SIMILARITY OR ORTHOGRAPHIC REDUNDANCY	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	Five experiments investigated the effects of word frequency, neighborhood size, and bigram frequency on lexical decision and word-naming performance. Large neighborhood size, manipulated independently of bigram frequency, facilitated lexical decision and standard naming latencies for low-frequency words but had no effect on delayed naming performance. Bigram frequency, manipulated independently of neighborhood size, had no effect on lexical decision or naming performance. The data suggest that effects of neighborhood size reflect lexical similarity rather than orthographic redundancy and that they are due to lexical access rather than processes specific to lexical decision or naming tasks. The results are incompatible with models assuming that lexical access involves a serial comparison process. The implications for parallel models assuming localized and distributed representations are discussed.
226	connectionism	1995	BRESSLER, SL	LARGE-SCALE CORTICAL NETWORKS AND COGNITION	BRAIN RESEARCH REVIEWS	The well-known parcellation of the mammalian cerebral cortex into a large number of functionally distinct cytoarchitectonic areas presents a problem for understanding the complex cortical integrative functions that underlie cognition. How do cortical areas having unique individual functional properties cooperate to accomplish these complex operations? Do neurons distributed throughout the cerebral cortex act together in large-scale functional assemblages? This review examines the substantial body of evidence supporting the view that complex integrative functions are carried out by large-scale networks of cortical areas. Pathway tracing studies in non-human primates have revealed widely distributed networks of interconnected cortical areas, providing an anatomical substrate for large-scale parallel processing of information in the cerebral cortex. Functional coactivation of multiple cortical areas has been demonstrated by neurophysiological studies in non-human primates and several different cognitive functions have been shown to depend on multiple distributed areas by human neuropsychological studies. Electrophysiological studies on interareal synchronization have provided evidence that active neurons in different cortical areas may become not only coactive, but also functionally interdependent. The computational advantages of synchronization between cortical areas in large-scale networks have been elucidated by studies using artificial neural network models. Recent observations of time-varying multi-areal cortical synchronization suggest that the functional topology of a large-scale cortical network is dynamically reorganized during visuomotor behavior.
227	connectionism	2003	Daoudal, G; Debanne, D	Long-term plasticity of intrinsic excitability: Learning rules and mechanisms	LEARNING & MEMORY	Spatio-temporal configurations of distributed activity in the brain is thought to contribute to the coding of neuronal information and synaptic contacts between nerve cells could play a central role in the formation of privileged pathways of activity. Synaptic plasticity is not the exclusive mode of regulation of information processing in the brain, and persistent regulations of ionic conductances in some specialized neuronal areas such as the dendrites, the cell body, and the axon could also modulate, in the long-term, the propagation of neuronal information. Persistent changes in intrinsic excitability have been reported in several brain areas in which activity is elevated during a classical conditioning. The role of synaptic activity seems to be a determinant in the induction, but the learning rules and the underlying mechanisms remain to be defined. We discuss here the role of synaptic activity in the induction of intrinsic plasticity in cortical, hippocampal, and cerebellar neurons. Activation of glutamate receptors initiates a long-term modification in neuronal excitability that may represent a parallel, synergistic substrate for learning and memory. Similar to synaptic plasticity, long-lasting intrinsic plasticity appears to be bidirectional and to express a certain level of input or cell specificity. These nonsynaptic forms of plasticity affect the signal propagation in the axon, the dendrites, and the soma. They not only share common learning rules and induction pathways with the better-known synaptic plasticity such as NMDA receptor dependent LTP and LTD, but also contribute in synergy with these synaptic changes to the formation of a coherent engram.
228	connectionism	1998	Schroeder, CE; Mehta, AD; Givre, SJ	A spatiotemporal profile of visual system activation revealed by current source density analysis in the awake macaque	CEREBRAL CORTEX	We investigated the spatiotemporal activation pattern, produced by one Visual stimulus, across cerebral cortical regions in awake monkeys. Laminar profiles of postsynaptic potentials and action potentials were indexed with current source density (CSD) and multiunit activity profiles respectively. Locally, we found contrasting activation profiles in dorsal and ventral stream areas. The former, like V1 and V2, exhibit a 'feedforward' profile, with excitation beginning at the depth of Lamina 4, followed by activation of the extragranular laminae. The latter often displayed a multilaminar/columnar profile, with initial responses distributed across the laminae and reflecting modulation rather than excitation; CSD components were accompanied by either no changes or by suppression of action potentials. System-wide, response latencies indicated a large dorsal/ventral stream latency advantage, which generalizes across a wide range of methods. This predicts a specific temporal ordering of dorsal and Ventral stream components of visual analysis, as well as specific patterns of dorsal-ventral stream interaction. Our findings support a hierarchical model of cortical organization that combines serial and parallel elements. Critical in such a model is the recognition that processing within a location typically entails multiple temporal components or 'waves' of activity, driven by input conveyed over heterogeneous pathways from the retina.
229	connectionism	2003	McClelland, JL; Rogers, TT	The parallel distributed processing approach to semantic cognition	NATURE REVIEWS NEUROSCIENCE	How do we know what properties something has, and which of its properties should be generalized to other objects? How is the knowledge underlying these abilities acquired, and how is it affected by brain disorders? Our approach to these issues is based on the idea that cognitive processes arise from the interactions of neurons through synaptic connections. The knowledge in such interactive and distributed processing systems is stored in the strengths of the connections and is acquired gradually through experience. Degradation of semantic knowledge occurs through degradation of the patterns of neural activity that probe the knowledge stored in the connections. Simulation models based on these ideas capture semantic cognitive processes and their development and disintegration, encompassing domain-specific patterns of generalization in young children, and the restructuring of conceptual knowledge as a function of experience.
230	connectionism	1990	GLOOR, P	EXPERIENTIAL PHENOMENA OF TEMPORAL-LOBE EPILEPSY - FACTS AND HYPOTHESES	BRAIN	Experiential phenomena that occur in temporal lobe seizures and can be reproduced by electrical stimulation of temporal lobe structures typically encompass perceptual, mnemonic and affective features, either in combination or in isolation, which commonly relate to the patient's individual past experience.  These phenomena raise interesting questions concerning brain mechanisms involved in human psychophysiology.  The anatomical substrates for the evocation of these phenomena are widely distributed within the temporal lobe and include temporal isocortex and limbic structures (amygdala, hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus). Arguments are presented which indicate that experiential phenomena are positive expressions of temporal lobe and limbic function and do not result from its ictal paralysis.  Recent concepts of parallel distributed processing (Rumelhart and McClelland, 1986) and the importance of parallel distributed cortical networks for higher cognitive functions (Goldman-Rakic, 1988a,b) provide a theoretical framework on which a hypothesis explaining experiential phenomena can be based.  In conformity with these concepts the hypothesis assumes that temporal lobe epileptic discharge or electrical stimulation of temporal lobe structures can induce the elaboration of patterns of excitation and inhibition in widely distributed neuronal networks, some of which are capable of forming a specific matrix representing the substrate of a given experience.  Neuronal networks engaged in parallel distributed processing (1) have the capacity to recreate the totality of a given experience when only a fragment of the network is activated, and (2) they tolerate a great deal of degradation by random inactivation of its components or by interference through random noise without serious loss of information content.  These features are compatible with the assumption that localized epileptic neuronal discharge or electrical stimulation involving some temporal lobe structures could create a matrix representing features of individual experience of the kind activated in the course of temporal lobe seizures.  Such an experience could, up to a certain limit, resist the degrading influence of mounting noise which inevitably must attend seizure discharge.
231	connectionism	1994	COLTHEART, M; RASTLE, K	SERIAL PROCESSING IN READING ALOUD - EVIDENCE FOR DUAL-ROUTE MODELS OF READING	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The authors examined the regularity effect on reading aloud as a function of left-to-right phonemic position of irregularity in low-frequency exception words. Ss named 96 low-frequency exception words categorized into 5 conditions on the basis of the position (1st through 5th) of their Ist irregular grapheme-to-phoneme correspondence (GPC). Latencies and error rates for these words were compared with the rates for 96 matched GPC regular controls. Results showed that the cost of irregularity decreased monotonically over the 5 positions of irregularity. This result is offered as evidence for dual-route models of reading and against parallel distributed processing models of reading.
232	connectionism	2003	Schneider, W; Chein, JM	Controlled & automatic processing: behavior, theory, and biological mechanisms	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This paper provides an overview of developments in a dual processing theory of automatic and controlled processing that began with the empirical and theoretical work described by Schneider and Shiffrin (1977) and Shiffrin and Schneider (1977) over a quarter century ago. A review of relevant empirical findings suggests that there is a set of core behavioral phenomena reflecting differences between controlled and automatic processing that must be addressed by a successful theory. These phenomena relate to: consistency in training, serial versus parallel processing, level of effort, robustness to stressors, degree of control, effects on long-term memory, and priority encoding. We detail a computational model of controlled processing, CAP2, that accounts for these phenomena as emergent properties of an underlying hybrid computational architecture. The model employs a large network of distributed data modules that can categorize, buffer, associate, and prioritize information. Each module is a connectionist network with input and output layers, and each module communicates with a central Control System by outputting priority and activity report signals, and by receiving control signals. The Control System is composed of five processors including a Goal Processor, an Attention Controller, an Activity Monitor, an Episodic Store, and a Gating & Report Relay. The transition from controlled to automatic processing occurs in this model as the data modules become capable of transmitting their output without mediation by the Control System. We describe recent progress in mapping the components of this model onto specific neuroanatomical substrates, briefly discuss the potential for applying functional neuroimaging techniques to test the model's predictions, and its relation to other models. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
233	connectionism	2006	Kliegl, R; Nuthmann, A; Engbert, R	Tracking the mind during reading: The influence of past, present, and future words on fixation durations	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Reading requires the orchestration of visual, attentional, language-related, and oculomotor processing constraints. This study replicates previous effects of frequency, predictability, and length of fixated words on fixation durations in natural reading and demonstrates new effects of these variables related to previous and next words. Results are based on fixation durations recorded from 222 persons, each reading 144 sentences. Such evidence for distributed processing of words across fixation durations challenges psycholinguistic immediacy-of-processing and eye-mind assumptions. Most of the time the mind processes several words in parallel at different perceptual and cognitive levels. Eye movements can help to unravel these processes.
234	connectionism	1996	Smet, PJ; Jonavicius, J; Marshall, VR; DeVente, J	Distribution of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive nerves and identification of the cellular targets of nitric oxide in guinea-pig and human urinary bladder by cGMP immunohistochemistry	NEUROSCIENCE	The distribution of nerves with the potential to synthesize nitric oxide was examined within the urinary bladder and proximal urethra of humans and guinea-pigs, using an antibody to nitric oxide synthase. Further experiments identified cells in which cGMP-immunoreactivity was induced following exposure to the nitric oxide donor, sodium nitroprusside. These cells represent the potential physiological targets of neuronally released nitric oxide, since activation of soluble guanylate cyclase, and a consequent rise in intracellular cGMP, mediate many of the effects of this transmitter. Nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactivity was widely distributed in the lower urinary tract. In guinea-pigs, 50-68% of all intrinsic vesical neurons expressed nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactivity, while in humans 72-96% of neurons in the wall of the bladder contained nitric oxide synthase. In both humans and guinea-pigs, varicose nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive nerve terminals provided a moderate innervation to the detrusor muscle of the bladder body, and a denser innervation to the urethral muscle. Immunoreactive nerves also projected to the subepithelium and around blood vessels, but were rarely observed encircling intramural vesical ganglia. Following stimulation with sodium nitroprusside, smooth muscle cells of the urethra expressed strong cGMP-immunoreactivity, but detrusor muscle cells remained uniformly negative. Although the detrusor muscle fibres did not express cGMP, numerous interstitial cells throughout the bladder body demonstrated an intense induction of cGMP-immunoreactivity by sodium nitroprusside. These cells had long dendritic processes extending parallel to the smooth muscle fibres, and contained vimentin, an intermediate filament expressed by cells of mesenchymal origin. Other cell types in which sodium nitroprusside exposure induced cGMP-immunoreactivity were the uroepithelial cells, vascular smooth muscle cells and pericytes, and a small number of varicose nerve terminals. In the guinea-pig, a minor proportion (less than 10%) of intrinsic neurons in the wall of the bladder also expressed cGMP. No intrinsic neurons were observed in specimens of human bladder processed for cGMP immunohistochemistry. The results provide anatomical evidence that nitric oxide may function as a neurotransmitter in the lower urinary tract. Although nerves with the capacity to produce nitric oxide supply both the detrusor muscle and the urethra, distinct regional differences exist in the effects of nitric oxide on the induction of cGMP. If the nitric oxide-mediated induction of cGMP is a reliable indicator of the physiological responsiveness of a cell to nitric oxide, then smooth muscle cells appear to be the predominant targets of nitric oxide in the urethra, while in the bladder body, interstitial cells may serve this role. These findings support previous studies which have implicated nitric oxide as an inhibitory transmitter involved in the relaxation of the bladder neck. Our experiments further indicate that a number of cell types within the lower urinary tract could potentially mediate the effects of endogenously released nitric oxide.
235	connectionism	2002	Gilbert, SJ; Shallice, T	Task switching: A PDP model	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	When subjects switch between a pair of stimulus-response tasks, reaction time is slower on trial N if a different task was performed on trial N - 1. We present a parallel distributed processing (PDP) model that simulates this effect when subjects switch between word reading and color naming in response to Stroop stimuli. Reaction time on "switch trials" can be slowed by an extended response selection process which results from (a) persisting, inappropriate states of activation and inhibition of task-controlling representations and (b) associative learning, which allows stimuli to evoke tasks sets with which they have recently been associated (as proposed by Allport & Wylie, 2000). The model provides a good fit to a large body of empirical data, including findings which have been seen as problematic for this explanation of switch costs, and shows similar behavior when the parameters are set to random values, supporting Allport and Wylie's proposal. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science (USA).
236	connectionism	1992	PARTHASARATHY, HB; SCHALL, JD; GRAYBIEL, AM	DISTRIBUTED BUT CONVERGENT ORDERING OF CORTICOSTRIATAL PROJECTIONS - ANALYSIS OF THE FRONTAL EYE FIELD AND THE SUPPLEMENTARY EYE FIELD IN THE MACAQUE MONKEY	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	The degree of parallel processing in frontal cortex-basal ganglia circuits is a central and debated issue in research on the basal ganglia. To approach this issue directly, we analyzed and compared the corticostriatal projections of two principal oculomotor areas of the frontal lobes, the frontal eye field (FEF) and the supplementary eye field (SEF). We first identified cortical regions within or adjacent to each eye field by microstimulation in macaque monkeys and then injected each site with either S-35-methionine or WGA-HRP conjugate. We analyzed the corticostriatal projections and also the interconnections of the pairs of cortical areas. We observed major convergence of the projections of the FEF and the SEF within the striatum, principally in the caudate nucleus. In cross sections through the striatum, both projections were broken into a series of discontinuous input zones that seemed to be part of complex three-dimensional labyrinths. Where the FEF and SEF projection fields were both present, they overlapped patch for patch. Thus, both inputs were dispersed within the striatum but converged with one another. Striatal afferents from cortex adjacent to the FEF and the SEF did not show convergence with SEF and FEF inputs, but did, in part, converge with one another. For all pairs of cortical areas tested, the degree of overlap in the corticostriatal projections appeared to be directly correlated with the degree of cortical interconnectivity of the areas injected. All of the corticostriatal fiber projections observed primarily avoided immunohistochemically identified striosomes. We conclude that there is convergence of oculomotor information from two distinct regions of the frontal cortex to the striatal matrix, which is known to project into pallidonigral circuits including the striatonigrocollicular pathway of the saccadic eye movement system. Furthermore, functionally distinct premotor areas near the oculomotor fields often systematically projected to striatal zones adjacent to oculomotor field projections, suggesting an anatomical basis for potential interaction of these inputs within the striatum. We propose that parallel processing is not the exclusive principle of organization of forebrain circuits associated with the basal ganglia. Rather, patterns of both convergence and divergence are present and are likely to depend on multiple functional and developmental constraints.
237	connectionism	1999	Engel, AK; Fries, P; Konig, P; Brecht, M; Singer, W	Temporal binding, binocular rivalry, and consciousness	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	Cognitive functions like perception, memory, language, or consciousness are based on highly parallel and distributed information processing by the brain. One of the major unresolved questions is how information can be integrated and how coherent representational states can be established in the distributed neuronal systems subserving these functions. It has been suggested that this so-called ''binding problem'' may be solved in the temporal domain. The hypothesis is that synchronization of neuronal discharges can serve for the integration of distributed neurons into cell assemblies and that this process may underlie the selection of perceptually and behaviorally relevant information. As we intend to show here, this temporal binding hypothesis has implications for the search of the neural correlate of consciousness. We review experimental results, mainly obtained in the visual system, which support the notion of temporal binding. In particular, we discuss recent experiments on the neural mechanisms of binocular rivalry which suggest that appropriate synchronization among cortical neurons may be one of the necessary conditions for the buildup of perceptual states and awareness of sensory stimuli. (C) 1999 Academic Press.
238	connectionism	1993	LU, SM; LIN, RCS	THALAMIC AFFERENTS OF THE RAT BARREL CORTEX - A LIGHT-MICROSCOPIC AND ELECTRON-MICROSCOPIC STUDY USING PHASEOLUS-VULGARIS LEUKOAGGLUTININ AS AN ANTEROGRADE TRACER	SOMATOSENSORY AND MOTOR RESEARCH	Anterograde tracers, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) and horseradish peroxidase (HRP), were used to study the thalamocortical afferents of the posteromedial barrel subfield (PMBSF) in rat primary somatosensory cortex (SI) at both light- and electron-microscopic levels. The PMBSF, also known as the barrel cortex, can be subdivided into barrel and interbarrel areas on the basis of cytoarchitectonic characteristics. Restricted injections confined to either the ventroposterior medial (VPM) or the rostral part of the posterior (Pom) nucleus allowed us to study and compare their projection patterns to the barrel cortex. We found that the interbarrel area receives inputs exclusively from the Pom, whereas the barrel area receives inputs from both the Pom and VPM. The laminar distributions of these two projections are largely segregated. After an injection of PHA-L or HRP into the VPM, labeled bouton-like swellings are found in layer VI and in layers IV through I of the barrel area, with the highest concentration in layer IV. On the other hand, after an injection of PHA-L or HRP into the Pom, labeled bouton-like swellings are distributed from upper layer V to layer I of the interbarrel area, as well as in layers V and I of the barrel area. Ultrastructural analysis showed that labeled bouton-like swellings of the VPM and the Pom pathways make synaptic contacts onto cortical neurons, and that these contacts are asymmetrical. Therefore, the VPM and the Pom projections are complementary to each other in the barrel cortex, and together they provide thalamic inputs to most layers of both the barrel and interbarrel areas. The differential patterns of terminations of the VPM and the Pom projections in the barrel cortex suggest that they may be involved in different types of cortical processing. Furthermore, our present findings may provide the anatomical basis for two parallel thalamocortical pathways, which previous physiological studies have indicated are each concerned with particular submodalities of somatic information.
239	connectionism	2003	Rex, DE; Ma, JQ; Toga, AW	The LONI Pipeline Processing Environment	NEUROIMAGE	The analysis of raw data in neuroimaging has become a computationally entrenched process with many intricate steps run on increasingly larger datasets. Many software packages exist that provide either complete analyses or specific steps in an analysis. These packages often possess diverse input and output requirements, utilize different file formats, run in particular environments, and have limited abilities with certain types of data. The combination of these packages to achieve more sensitive and accurate results has become a common tactic in brain mapping studies but requires much work to ensure valid interoperation between programs. The handling, organization, and storage of intermediate data can prove difficult as well. The LONI Pipeline Processing Environment is a simple, efficient, and distributed computing solution to these problems enabling software inclusion from different laboratories in different environments. It is used here to derive a T1-weighted MRI atlas of the human brain from 452 normal young adult subjects with fully automated processing. The LONI Pipeline Processing Environment's parallel processing efficiency using an integrated client/server dataflow model was 80.9% when running the atlas generation pipeline from a PC client (Acer TravelMate 340T) on 48 dedicated server processors (Silicon Graphics Inc. Origin 3000). The environment was 97.5% efficient when the same analysis was run on eight dedicated processors. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.
240	connectionism	2001	Ralph, MAL; McClelland, JL; Patterson, K; Galton, CJ; Hodges, JR	No right to speak? The relationship between object naming and semantic impairment: Neuropsychological abstract evidence and a computational model	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	The processes required for object naming were addressed in a study of patients with semantic dementia (a selective decline of semantic memory resulting from progressive temporal lobe atrophy) and in a computational model of single-word production. Although all patients with semantic dementia are impaired in both single-word production and comprehension, previous reports had indicated two different patterns: (a) a parallel decline in accuracy of naming and comprehension with frequent semantic naming errors, suggesting a purely semantic basis for the anemia and (b) a dramatic progressive anemia without commensurate decline in comprehension, which might suggest a mainly postsemantic source of the anomia. Longitudinal data for 16 patients with semantic dementia reflected these two profiles, but with the following additional important specifications: (1) despite a few relatively extreme versions of one or other profile, the full set of cases formed a continuum in the extent of anomia for a given degree of degraded comprehension; (2) the degree of disparity between these two abilities was associated with relative asymmetry in laterality of atrophy: a parallel decline in the two measures characterized patients with greater right than left-temporal atrophy, while disproportionate anemia occurred with a predominance of atrophy in the left-temporal lobe. In an implemented computational model of naming, semantic representations were distributed across simulated left- and right-temporal regions, but the semantic units on the left were more strongly connected to left-lateralized phonological representations. Asymmetric damage to semantic units reproduced the longitudinal patient profiles of naming relative to comprehension. plus additional characteristics of che patients' naming performance. On the basis of both the neuropsychological and computational evidence, we propose that semantic impairment alone can account for the full range of word production deficits described here.
241	connectionism	1991	KAUER, JS	CONTRIBUTIONS OF TOPOGRAPHY AND PARALLEL PROCESSING TO ODOR CODING IN THE VERTEBRATE OLFACTORY PATHWAY	TRENDS IN NEUROSCIENCES	Odor information appears to be encoded by activity distributed across many neurons at each level in the olfactory pathway.  Thus olfactory circuits function as parallel distributed processors.  New methods for observing distributed activity in such systems permit computer simulations to be constructed that are constrained by patterns of activity observed in the real system.  Analysis of the system using a combination of physiological measurements and computational approaches might elucidate the principles by which odors are discriminated.
242	connectionism	2003	Barbas, H; Saha, S; Rempel-Clower, N; Ghashghaei, T	Serial pathways from primate prefrontal cortex to autonomic areas may influence emotional expression	BMC NEUROSCIENCE	Background: Experiencing emotions engages high-order orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal areas, and expressing emotions involves low-level autonomic structures and peripheral organs. How is information from the cortex transmitted to the periphery? We used two parallel approaches to map simultaneously multiple pathways to determine if hypothalamic autonomic centres are a key link for orbitofrontal areas and medial prefrontal areas, which have been associated with emotional processes, as well as low-level spinal and brainstem autonomic structures. The latter innervate peripheral autonomic organs, whose activity is markedly increased during emotional arousal. Results: We first determined if pathways linking the orbitofrontal cortex with the hypothalamus overlapped with projection neurons directed to the intermediolateral column of the spinal cord, with the aid of neural tracers injected in these disparate structures. We found that axons from orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal cortices converged in the hypothalamus with neurons projecting to brainstem and spinal autonomic centers, linking the highest with the lowest levels of the neuraxis. Using a parallel approach, we injected bidirectional tracers in the lateral hypothalamic area, an autonomic center, to label simultaneously cortical pathways leading to the hypothalamus, as well as hypothalamic axons projecting to low-level brainstem and spinal autonomic centers. We found densely distributed projection neurons in medial prefrontal and orbitofrontal cortices leading to the hypothalamus, as well as hypothalamic axonal terminations in several brainstem structures and the intermediolateral column of the spinal cord, which innervate peripheral autonomic organs. We then provided direct evidence that axons from medial prefrontal cortex synapse with hypothalamic neurons, terminating as large boutons, comparable in size to the highly efficient thalamocortical system. The interlinked orbitofrontal, medial prefrontal areas and hypothalamic autonomic centers were also connected with the amygdala. Conclusions: Descending pathways from orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal cortices, which are also linked with the amygdala, provide the means for speedy influence of the prefrontal cortex on the autonomic system, in processes underlying appreciation and expression of emotions.
243	connectionism	2007	Merker, B	Consciousness without a cerebral cortex: A challenge for neuroscience and medicine	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	A broad range of evidence regarding the functional organization of the vertebrate brain - spanning from comparative neurology to experimental psychology and neurophysiology to clinical data - is reviewed for its bearing on conceptions of the neural organization of consciousness. A novel principle relating target selection, action selection, and motivation to one another, as a means to optimize integration for action in real time, is introduced. With its help, the principal macrosystems of the vertebrate brain can be seen to form a centralized functional design in which an upper brain stem system organized for conscious function performs a penultimate step in action control. This upper brain stem system retained a key role throughout the evolutionary process by which an expanding forebrain - culminating in the cerebral cortex of mammals - came to serve as a medium for the elaboration of conscious contents. This highly conserved upper brainstem system, which extends from the roof of the midbrain to the basal diencephalon, integrates the massively parallel and distributed information capacity of the cerebral hemispheres into the limited-capacity, sequential mode of operation required for coherent behavior. It maintains special connective relations with cortical territories implicated in attentional and conscious functions, but is not rendered nonfunctional in the absence of cortical input. This helps explain the purposive, goal-directed behavior exhibited by mammals after experimental decortication, as well as the evidence that children born without a cortex are conscious. Taken together these circumstances suggest that brainstem mechanisms are integral to the constitution of the conscious state, and that an adequate account of neural mechanisms of conscious function cannot be confined to the thalamocortical complex alone.
244	connectionism	2001	Narumoto, J; Okada, T; Sadato, N; Fukui, K; Yonekura, Y	Attention to emotion modulates fMRI activity in human right superior temporal sulcus	COGNITIVE BRAIN RESEARCH	A parallel neural network has been proposed for processing various types of information conveyed by faces including emotion. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we tested the effect of the explicit attention to the emotional expression of the faces on the neuronal activity of the face-responsive regions. Delayed match to sample procedure was adopted. Subjects were required to match the visually presented pictures with regard to the contour of the face pictures, facial identity, and emotional expressions by valence (happy and fearful expressions) and arousal (fearful and sad expressions). Contour matching of the non-face scrambled pictures was used as a control condition. The face-responsive regions that responded more to faces than to non-face stimuli were the bilateral lateral fusiform gyrus; (LFG), the right superior temporal sulcus (STS), and the bilateral intraparietal sulcus (IPS). In these regions, general attention to the face enhanced the activities of the bilateral LFG, the right STS, and the left IPS compared with attention to the contour of the facial image. Selective attention to facial emotion specifically enhanced the activity of the right STS compared with attention to the face per se. The results suggest that the right STS region plays a special role in facial emotion recognition within distributed face-processing systems. This finding may support the notion that the STS is involved in social perception. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
245	connectionism	2007	Mandonnet, E; Nouet, A; Gatignol, P; Capelle, L; Duffau, H	Does the left inferior longitudinal fasciculus play a role in language? A brain stimulation study	BRAIN	Although advances in diffusion tensor imaging have enabled us to better study the anatomy of the inferior longitudinal fasciculus (ILF), its function remains poorly understood. Recently, it was suggested that the subcortical network subserving the language semantics could be constituted, in parallel with the inferior occipitofrontal fasciculus, by the left ILF, joining the posterior occipitotemporal regions to the temporal pole, then relayed by the uncinate fasciculus connecting the anterior temporal pole to the frontobasal areas. Nevertheless, this hypothesis was solely based on neurofunctional imaging, allowing a cortical mapping but with no anatomofunctional information regarding the white matter. Here, we report a series of 12 patients operated on under local anaesthesia for a cerebral low-grade glioma located within the left temporal lobe. Before and during resection, we used the method of intraoperative direct electrostimulation, enabling us to perform accurate and reliable anatomofunctional correlations both at cortical and subcortical levels. In order to map the ILF. Using postoperative MRI, we correlated these functional findings with the anatomical locations of the sites where language disturbances were elicited by stimulations, both at cortical and subcortical levels. Our goal was to study the potential existence of parallel and distributed language networks crossing the left dominant temporal lobe, sub-served by distinct subcortical pathways namely the inferior occipitofrontal fasciculus and the ILF. Intraoperative stimulation of the anterior and middle temporal cortex elicited anomia in four patients. At the subcortical level, semantic paraphasia were induced in seven patients during stimulation of the inferior occipitofrontal fasciculus, and phonological paraphasia was generated in seven patients by stimulating the arcuate fasciculus. Interestingly, subcortical stimulation never elicited any language disturbances when performed at the level of the ILF. In addition, following a transient postoperative language deficit, all patients recovered, despite the resection of at least one part of the ILF, as confirmed by control MRI. On the basis of these results, we suggest that the "semantic ventral stream" could be constituted by at least two parallel pathways within the left dominant temporal lobe: (i) a direct pathway, the inferior occipitofrontal fasciculus, that connects the posterior temporal areas and the orbitofrontal region, crucial for language semantic processing, since it elicits semantic paraphasia when stimulated; (ii) and also possibly an indirect pathway subserved by the ILF, not indispensable for language, since it can be compensated both during stimulation and after resection.
246	connectionism	1993	KURATA, K	PREMOTOR CORTEX OF MONKEYS - SET-RELATED AND MOVEMENT-RELATED ACTIVITY REFLECTING AMPLITUDE AND DIRECTION OF WRIST MOVEMENTS	JOURNAL OF NEUROPHYSIOLOGY	1. Neuronal activity was recorded from the premotor cortex (PM) of Japanese monkeys while they performed hand movements with different amplitudes and directions. On each behavioral trial, two instructions were given sequentially: 1) an amplitude instruction (large or small) and 2) a direction instruction (flexion or extension). The onset of movement was triggered by a visual signal after a delay period. 2. Among various kinds of task-related neuronal activity recorded in the PM, two types were selected for study: 1) set-related activity, sustained activity change during the delay period that followed presentation of instruction signals (IS); and 2) movement-related activity, activity change immediately before and during a movement, which followed the trigger signal (TS) presentation. 3. Thirty-two of 101 set-related neurons showed activity change after presentation of the first IS (Delay 1 set-related activity), when they were instructed in either amplitude or direction, but not both. All of the set-related neurons showed activity modulation after presentation of the second IS (Delay 2 set-related activity). When neurons showed both Delay 1 and Delay 2 set-related activity, they were usually more active during Delay 2, i.e., when the monkeys had received both amplitude and directional ISs. A majority of neurons with Delay 2 set-related activity (64%) showed relation to both movement amplitude and direction. Twenty-eight percent of the neurons showed relation to either amplitude or direction, but not both. These findings seem consistent with a view that serial, rather than parallel, processes of motor programming operate in preparation of intended movements. 4. A majority of PM neurons with movement-related activity (51%) showed activity change related to both the direction and amplitude of movement. Forty-two percent showed selective relation to either direction or amplitude. These findings support a view that PM contributes to the control of limb movements. 5. Histological reconstruction showed that a vast majority of PM set-related neurons were located in the dorsal aspect of the PM (PMd), medial to the arcuate spur and lateral to the superior precentral sulcus. In contrast, movement-related neurons were distributed in two distinct foci: one in the ventral aspect of the PM (PMv), immediately caudal to the genu of the arcuate sulcus and lateral to the spur of the sulcus; and the other in the PMd, overlapping the location of set-related neurons. The data support the hypothesis that PMd and PMv play different roles in motor control. PMd may contribute more to motor preparation by supporting neural programs necessary for an intended action, whereas PMv may be more specialized for execution of a visually guided movement. The set- and movement-related activity in the PMd and PMv may be transmitted to the primary motor cortex (MI) to generate motor commands to lower motor centers.
247	connectionism	1993	BARBAS, H	ORGANIZATION OF CORTICAL AFFERENT INPUT TO ORBITOFRONTAL AREAS IN THE RHESUS-MONKEY	NEUROSCIENCE	Odorant signal processing takes place in a diverse group of primary olfactory areas which receive direct input from the olfactory bulb. Orbitofrontal cortices participate in olfactory functions, but the pathways through which they receive olfactory or other input have not been clearly defined. The retrograde tracers horseradish peroxidase and fluorescent dyes were injected in orbital cortices to study their afferent cortical connections. Labeled neurons in primary olfactory areas (prepiriform cortex, anterior olfactory nucleus and olfactory tubercle) were directed mainly to a posterior orbitofrontal region and to a lesser extent the neighboring caudal part of area 13. There was no evidence of direct projections from primary olfactory areas to the rostral parts of area 13, or to areas 12 or 11. Most labeled neurons in primary olfactory areas were directed to agranular cortices, fewer projected to dysgranular areas, and there was no evidence that any reached granular cortices. The areas which received the most robust olfactory projections showed the lowest degree of laminar organization among prefrontal cortices. Early processing in the olfactory system thus takes place in areas which differ sharply on structural grounds from ''early'' eulaminate post-Rolandic sensory cortices. In addition to olfactory cortical projections, numerous labeled neurons in transitional (limbic) cortices were directed to orbital areas, and fewer but still substantial numbers of afferent neurons were found in eulaminate cortices. Unlike post-Rolandic unimodal sensory areas, which seem to be committed to the processing of input from one sensory modality via sequential and/or parallel pathways, caudal orbital areas received highly distributed input from primary olfactory areas, and in addition, from gustatory, visual, auditory and somatosensory areas. The structural and connectional features of olfactory recipient orbital cortices thus differ markedly from those observed in other sensory association areas and suggest a mode of processing adapted early in cortical evolution.
248	connectionism	1991	BALUCH, B; BESNER, D	VISUAL WORD RECOGNITION - EVIDENCE FOR STRATEGIC CONTROL OF LEXICAL AND NONLEXICAL ROUTINES IN ORAL READING	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	The spelling-sound correspondences in written Persian are always consistent, but some of the words include vowels as a fixed part of their spelling (phonologically transparent words), whereas for other words the vowels are typically not specified (phonologically opaque words). Two speeded naming studies show that semantic relatedness and word frequency affect performance (a) on both classes of words when the context excludes nonwords, and (b) affects opaque words but not transparent words when nonwords form part of the context. A further study shows that (a) transparent words yield word frequency effects when nonwords are absent from the context, and (b) the frequency effect disappears when nonwords form part of the context. The data favor a flexible multiple route model of word recognition whose operation is inconsistent with both the orthographic depth hypothesis and the definitional facts of parallel distributed processing.
249	connectionism	2004	Calvert, GA; Thesen, T	Multisensory integration: methodological approaches and emerging principles in the human brain	JOURNAL OF PHYSIOLOGY-PARIS	Understanding the conditions under which the brain integrates the different sensory streams and the mechanisms supporting this phenomenon is now a question at the forefront of neuroscience. In this paper, we discuss the opportunities for investigating these multisensory processes using modern imaging techniques, the nature of the information obtainable from each method and their benefits and limitations. Despite considerable variability in terms of paradigm design and analysis, some consistent findings are beginning to emerge. The detection of brain activity in human neuroimaging studies that resembles multisensory integration responses at the cellular level in other species, suggests similar crossmodal binding mechanisms may be operational in the human brain. These mechanisms appear to be distributed across distinct neuronal networks that vary depending on the nature of the shared information between different sensory cues. For example, differing extents of correspondence in time, space or content seem to reliably bias the involvement of different integrative networks which code for these cues. A combination of data obtained from haemodynamic and electromagnetic methods, which offer high spatial or temporal resolution respectively, are providing converging evidence of multisensory interactions at both "early" and "late" stages of processing-suggesting a cascade of synergistic processes operating in parallel at different levels of the cortex. (0 2004 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
250	connectionism	1992	COHEN, JD; SERVANSCHREIBER, D; MCCLELLAND, JL	A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING APPROACH TO AUTOMATICITY	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	We consider how a particular set of information processing principles, developed within the parallel distributed processing (PDP) framework, can address issues concerning automaticity. These principles include graded, activation-based processing that is subject to attentional modulation; incremental, connection-based learning; and interactivity and competition in processing. We show how simulation models, based on these principles, can account for the major phenomena associated with automaticity, as well as many of those that have been troublesome for more traditional theories. In particular, we show how the PDP framework provides an alternative to the usual dichotomy between automatic and controlled processing and can explain the relative nature of automaticity as well as the fact that seemingly automatic processes can be influenced by attention. We also discuss how this framework can provide insight into the role that bidirectional influences play in processing: that is, how attention can influence processing at the same time that processing influences attention. Simulation models of the Stroop color-word task and the Eriksen response-competition task are described that help illustrate the application of the principles to performance in specific behavioral tasks.
251	connectionism	1992	BESSON, M; KUTAS, M; VANPETTEN, C	AN EVENT-RELATED POTENTIAL (ERP) ANALYSIS OF SEMANTIC CONGRUITY AND REPETITION EFFECTS IN SENTENCES	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	In two experiments, event-related brain potentials (ERPs) and cued-recall performance measures were used to examine die consequences of semantic congruity and repetition on the processing of words in sentences. A set of sentences, half of which ended with words that rendered them semantically incongruous, was repeated either once (e.g., Experiment 1) or twice (e.g., Experiment 2). After each block of sentences, subjects were given all of the sentences and asked to recall the missing final words. Repetition benefited the recall of both congruous and incongruous endings and reduced the amplitude and shortened the duration of the N400 component of the ERP more for (1) incongruous than congruous words, (2) open class than closed class words, and (3) low-frequency than high-frequency open class words. For incongruous sentence terminations, repetition increased the amplitude of a broad positive component subsequent to the N400. Assuming additive factors logic and a traditional view of the lexicon, our N400 results indicate that in addition to their singular effects, semantic congruity, repetition, and word frequency converge to influence a common stage of lexical processing. Within a parallel distributed processing framework, our results argue for substantial temporal and spatial overlap in the activation of codes subserving word recognition so as to yield the observed interactions of repetition with semantic congruity, lexical class, and word frequency effects.
252	connectionism	2003	Albright, A; Hayes, B	Rules vs. analogy in English past tenses: a computational/experimental study	COGNITION	Are morphological patterns learned in the form of rules? Some models deny this, attributing all morphology to analogical mechanisms. The dual mechanism model (Pinker, S., & Prince, A. (1998). On language and connectionism: analysis of a parallel distributed processing model of language acquisition. Cognition, 28, 73-193) posits that speakers do internalize rules, but that these rules are few and cover only regular processes; the remaining patterns are attributed to analogy. This article advocates a third approach, which uses multiple stochastic rules and no analogy. We propose a model that employs inductive learning to discover multiple rules, and assigns them confidence scores based on their performance in the lexicon. Our model is supported over the two alternatives by new "wug test" data on English past tenses, which show that participant ratings of novel pasts depend on the phonological shape of the stem, both for irregulars and, surprisingly, also for regulars. The latter observation cannot be explained under the dual mechanism approach, which derives all regulars with a single rule. To evaluate the alternative hypothesis that all morphology is analogical, we implemented a purely analogical model, which evaluates novel pasts based solely on their similarity to existing verbs. Tested against experimental data, this analogical model also failed in key respects: it could not locate patterns that require abstract structural characterizations, and it favored implausible responses based on single, highly similar exemplars. We conclude that speakers extend morphological patterns based on abstract structural properties, of a kind appropriately described with rules. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
253	connectionism	1998	Munakata, Y	Infant perseveration and implications for object permanence theories: A PDP model of the A(B)over-bar task	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	From the earliest ages at which infants search for hidden objects, they make the A (B) over bar error, searching perseveratively at previous rather than current hiding locations (Piaget, 1954). This paper presents a parallel distributed processing (PDP) model that instantiates an explicit set of processing mechanisms to account for a large and diverse set of data on infants' A (B) over bar errors. The model demonstrates how basic processes U the formation of latent memory traces and their interaction with developing active memory traces U can provide a unifying framework for understanding why and when infants perseverate. Novel predictions from the model are discussed, together with its challenges for theories that posit a concept of object permanence in the first year of life.
254	connectionism	2005	Deco, G; Rolls, ET	Attention, short-term memory, and action selection: A unifying theory	PROGRESS IN NEUROBIOLOGY	Cognitive behaviour requires complex context-dependent processing of information that emerges from the links between attentional perceptual processes, working memory and reward-based evaluation of the performed actions. We describe a computational neuroscience theoretical framework which shows how an attentional state held in a short term memory in the prefrontal cortex can by top-down processing influence ventral and dorsal stream cortical areas using biased competition to account for many aspects of visual attention. We also show how within the prefrontal cortex an attentional bias can influence the mapping of sensory inputs to motor outputs, and thus play an important role in decision making. We also show how the absence of expected rewards can switch an attentional bias signal, and thus rapidly and flexibly alter cognitive performance. This theoretical framework incorporates spiking and synaptic dynamics which enable single neuron responses, fMRI activations, psychophysical results, the effects of pharmacological agents, and the effects of damage to parts of the system to be explicitly simulated and predicted. This computational neuroscience framework provides an approach for integrating different levels of investigation of brain function, and for understanding the relations between them. The models also directly address how bottom-up and top-down processes interact in visual cognition, and show how some apparently serial processes reflect the operation of interacting parallel distributed systems. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
255	connectionism	1997	Engel, AK; Roelfsema, PR; Fries, P; Brecht, M; Singer, W	Role of the temporal domain for response selection and perceptual binding	CEREBRAL CORTEX	Most cognitive functions are based on highly parallel and distributed information processing by the brain. A paradigmatic example is provided by the vertebrate visual system where numerous cortical areas have been described which analyse different types of visual information. At present, it is unclear how information can he integrated and how coherent representational states can be established in such distributed systems. We suggest that this so-called 'binding problem' may be solved in the temporal domain. The hypothesis is that synchronization of neuronal discharges can serve far the integration of distributed neurons into cell assemblies and that this process may underlie the selection of perceptually and behaviourally relevant information. We review experimental results, mainly obtained in the visual system, which support this temporal binding hypothesis.
256	connectionism	1994	TRAUB, RD; JEFFERYS, JGR; WHITTINGTON, MA	ENHANCED NMDA CONDUCTANCE CAN ACCOUNT FOR EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY-INDUCED BY LOW MG2+ IN THE RAT HIPPOCAMPAL SLICE	JOURNAL OF PHYSIOLOGY-LONDON	1. Why does lowering extracellular Mg2+ cause synchronous neuronal bursts and after-discharges? To address this question, a computer model of the CA3 region was constructed with 1000 pyramidal neurones and 100 inhibitory neurones. Pyramidal neurones were multicompartmental and contained five ionic conductances, distributed non-uniformly on the membrane. In parallel, experiments were performed on rat hippocampal slices perfused in solutions without added Mg2+ 2. Model neurones were interconnected randomly as follows. Recurrent excitatory connections between pyramidal neurones, and from pyramidal neurones to inhibitory cells, stimulated both alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptors (rapid, voltage and Mg2+ independent) and NMDA receptors (slow conductance decay, voltage and Mg2+ dependent). A time-dependent 'desensitization' process was included whereby the NMDA-mediated conductance declined after the onset of synchronized firing. Half of the inhibitory neurones activated GABA(A) receptors on pyramidal cells (perisomatic, rapid), and half activated GABA(B) receptors (dendritic, slow onset and decay). 3. We examined patterns of synchronous firing in the pyramidal cells as parameters defining model features were manipulated. These parameters included the maximum conductance of individual synapses, [Mg2(o)(+]), excitatory connectivity, and parameters that defined the NMDA 'desensitization' process. Comparisons were made with experiment where possible. 4. GABA(A) blockade in 1 mM [Mg2+](o) induces single bursts and bursts with after-discharges. Synchronized bursts and after-discharges also occurred in the model when NMDA conductances were sufficiently enhanced, even with GABA(A) inhibition present. Both in simulated and experimental after-discharges in low-Mg2+ solutions, the level of GABA(A) inhibition was important in determining the number of secondary bursts and the number of somatic spikes per wave. 5. The model of low-Mg2+-induced synchrony predicts that each somatic wave is induced by a dendritic Ca2+ spike and that the dendritic spikes are superimposed on a tonic dendritic depolarization generated by the enhanced NMDA conductance. We further predict the recurrent activation of interneurones by NMDA receptors, based both on experiments and simulations in which AMPA receptors are blocked. 6. Many of the mechanisms underlying low-Mg2+-induced after-discharges appear to resemble those underlying picrotoxin-induced after-discharges. These mechanisms can operate in low-Mg2+ solutions because of the increase in NMDA conductance in the recurrent excitatory connections.
257	connectionism	2010	Borst, A; Haag, J; Reiff, DF	Fly Motion Vision	ANNUAL REVIEW OF NEUROSCIENCE, VOL 33	Fly motion vision and resultant compensatory optomotor responses are a classic example for neural computation. Here we review our current understanding of processing of optic flow as generated by an animal's self-motion. Optic flow processing is accomplished in a series of steps: First, the time-varying photoreceptor signals are fed into a two-dimensional array of Reichardt-type elementary motion detectors (EMDs). EMDs compute, in parallel, local motion vectors at each sampling point in space. Second, the output signals of many EMDs are spatially integrated on the dendrites of large-field tangential cells in the lobula plate. In the third step, tangential cells form extensive interactions with each other, giving rise to their large and complex receptive fields. Thus, tangential cells can act as matched filters tuned to optic flow during particular flight maneuvers. They finally distribute their information onto postsynaptic descending neurons, which either instruct the motor centers of the thoracic ganglion for flight and locomotion control or act themselves as motor neurons that control neck muscles for head movements.
258	connectionism	2000	Murray, EA; Bussey, TJ; Wise, SP	Role of prefrontal cortex in a network for arbitrary visuomotor mapping	EXPERIMENTAL BRAIN RESEARCH	In arbitrary visuomotor mapping, an object instructs a particular action or target of action, but does so in a particular way. In other forms of visuomotor control, the object is either the target of action (termed standard mapping) or its location provides the information needed for targeting (termed transformational mapping). By contrast, in arbitrary mapping, the object's location bears no systematic spatial relationship with the action. Neuropsychological and neurophysiological investigation has, in large part, identified the neural network that underlies the rapid acquisition and performance of arbitrary visuomotor mappings. This network consists of parts of the premotor (PM) and prefrontal (PF) cortex, the hippocampal system (HS), and the basal ganglia (BG). Here, we propose specialized contributions of the network's different components to its overall function. To do so, we invoke the concept of distributed information-processing architectures, or modules, which may involve a variety of neural structures. According to this view, recurrent neural networks involving cortex, basal ganglia, and thalamus operate largely in parallel. Each of these interacting networks can be termed a cortical-BG module. A large number of these modules include PM neurons, and they can be termed PM cortical-BG modules. A comparable number include PF neurons. termed PF cortical-BG modules. We propose that PM and PF cortical-BG modules compute specific object-to-action mappings, in which the network learns the action associated with a given input. These mappings serve as specific solutions to arbitrary visuomotor mapping problems. However, they are also exemplars of more abstract rules, such as the knowledge that nonspatial visual information (e.g., color) can guide the choice of action. We propose that PF cortical-BG modules subserve abstract rules of this kind, along with other problem-solving strategies. This view should not be taken to imply that the PF network lacks the capacity to compute specific mappings, but rather that it has higher-order mapping functions in addition to its lower-order ones. Furthermore, it seems likely that PF provides PM with pertinent sensory information. The hippocampal system appears to play a role parallel to that of both neocortical-BG networks discussed here. However, in accord with several models, it operates mainly in the intermediate term, pending the consolidation of the relevant information in those neocortical-BG networks.
259	connectionism	1993	DELL, GS; JULIANO, C; GOVINDJEE, A	STRUCTURE AND CONTENT IN LANGUAGE PRODUCTION - A THEORY OF FRAME CONSTRAINTS IN PHONOLOGICAL SPEECH ERRORS	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Theories of language production propose that utterances are constructed by a mechanism that separates linguistic content from linguistic structure. Linguistic content is retrieved from the mental lexicon, and is then inserted into slots in linguistic structures or frames. Support for this kind of model at the phonological level comes from patterns of phonological speech errors. W present an alternative account of these patterns using a connectionist or parallel distributed processing (PDP) model that learns to produce sequences of phonological features. The model's errors exhibit some of the properties of human speech errors, specifically, properties that have been attributed to the action of phonological rules, frames, or other structural generalizations.
260	connectionism	1999	Inase, M; Tokuno, H; Nambu, A; Akazawa, T; Takada, M	Corticostriatal and corticosubthalamic input zones from the presupplementary motor area in the macaque monkey: comparison with the input zones from the supplementary motor area	BRAIN RESEARCH	The presupplementary motor area (pre-SMA) is a cortical motor-related area which lies in the medial wall of the frontal lobe, immediately anterior to the supplementary motor area (SMA). This area has been considered to participate in the control of complex forelimb movements in a way different from the SMA. In an attempt to analyze the patterns of projections from the pre-SMA to the basal ganglia, we examined the distributions of pre-SMA inputs in the striatum and the subthalamic nucleus and compared them with the SMA input distributions. To detect morphologically the terminal fields from the pre-SMA and the forelimb region of the SMA, anterograde tracers were injected into such areas that had been identified electrophysiologically in the macaque monkey. Corticostriatal inputs from the pre-SMA were distributed mainly in the striatal cell bridges connecting the rostral aspects of the caudate nucleus and the putamen, as well as in their neighboring striatal portions. These input zones were located, with no substantial overlap, rostral to corticostriatal input zones from the SMA forelimb region. Corticosubthalamic input zones from the pre-SMA were almost localized in the medial aspect of the nucleus, where corticosubthalamic inputs from the SMA forelimb region were also distributed predominantly. However, the major terminal fields from the pre-SMA were centered ventrally to those from the SMA. The present results indicate that the corticostriatal and corticosubthalamic input zones from the pre-SMA appear to be segregated from the SMA-derived input zones. This implies the possibility of parallel processing of motor information from the pre-SMA and SMA in the cortico-basal ganglia circuit. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
261	connectionism	1993	KAWAMOTO, AH	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS IN THE RESOLUTION OF LEXICAL AMBIGUITY - A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING ACCOUNT	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	0
262	connectionism	1992	FISCHER, W; CHEN, KS; GAGE, FH; BJORKLUND, A	PROGRESSIVE DECLINE IN SPATIAL-LEARNING AND INTEGRITY OF FOREBRAIN CHOLINERGIC NEURONS IN RATS DURING AGING	NEUROBIOLOGY OF AGING	Rats distributed over five different age groups, 3, 12, 18, 24 and 30 months of age, were screened for their spatial learning and memory ability in the Morris water maze, and the degree of place navigational impairments was correlated with morphological changes in the four major forebrain cholinergic cell groups (medial septum, MS; vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca, VDB; nucleus basalis magnocellularis, NBM; and striatum) using choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and nerve growth factor receptor (NGFr) histochemistry. Impaired place navigation developed progressively with age, such that 8% of the 12-month-old rats, 45% of the 18-month-old, 53% of the 24-month-old, and over 90% of the 30-month-old rats were behaviorally impaired. Significant reductions in the number of ChAT/NGFr-positive cell bodies, amounting to between 19 and 45%, were observed in all four cell groups, and the remaining cells were reduced in size (6-24% reduction in cross-sectional area in the oldest age groups). Although the morphological changes were less severe and tended to develop later than the behavioral impairments, there was overall a significant correlation between water maze performance and ChAT/NGFr-positive cell counts, and to a lesser degree also cell size in all four cell groups. These changes were also highly correlated with age. The highest correlations were seen in MS, VDB and NBM, which are known to play a role in spatial memory performance in young rats. The results indicate that degenerative and/or atrophic changes in the forebrain cholinergic system and decline in spatial learning ability are parallel processes during aging. Although the magnitude of the morphological changes does not appear to be substantial enough, by itself, to explain the severe spatial learning impairments that develop in the oldest animals, the present data are consistent with the view that impaired function in the forebrain cholinergic system can contribute to age-dependent cognitive decline in rodents.
263	connectionism	2006	Treisman, A	How the deployment of attention determines what we see	VISUAL COGNITION	Attention is a tool to adapt what we see to our current needs. It can be focused narrowly on a single object or spread over several or distributed over the scene as a whole. In addition to increasing or decreasing the number of attended objects, these different deployments may have different effects on what we see. This article describes some research both on focused attention and its use in binding features, and on distributed attention and the kinds of information we gain and lose with the attention window opened wide. One kind of processing that we Suggest occurs automatically with distributed attention results in a statistical description of sets of similar objects. Another gives the gist of the scene, which may be inferred from sets of features registered in parallel. Flexible use of these different modes of attention allows us to reconcile sharp capacity limits with a richer understanding of the visual scene.
264	connectionism	2005	Binder, JR; Medler, DA; Desai, R; Conant, LL; Liebenthal, E	Some neurophysiological constraints on models of word naming	NEUROIMAGE	The pronunciation of irregular words in deep orthographies like English cannot be specified by simple rules. On the other hand, the fact that novel letter strings can be pronounced seems to imply the existence of such rules. These facts motivate dual-route models of word naming, which postulate separate lexical (whole-word) and non-lexical (rule-based) mechanisms for accessing phonology. We used fMRI during oral naming of irregular words, regular words, and nonwords, to test this theory against a competing single-mechanism account known as the triangle model, which proposes that all words are handled by a single system containing distributed orthographic, phonological, and semantic codes rather than word codes. Two versions of the dual-route model were distinguished: an 'exclusive' version in which activation of one processing route predominates over the other, and a 'parallel' version in which both routes are equally activated by all words. The fMRI results provide no support for the exclusive dual-route model. Several frontal, insular, anterior cingulate, and parietal regions showed responses that increased with naming difficulty (nonword > irregular word > regular word) and were correlated with response time, but there was no activation consistent with the predicted response of a nonlexical, rule-based mechanism (i.e., nonword > regular word > irregular word). Several regions, including the angular gyros and dorsal prefrontal cortex bilaterally, left ventromedial temporal lobe, and posterior cingulate gyros, were activated more by words than nonwords, but these 'lexical route' regions were equally active for irregular and regular words. The results are compatible with both the parallel dual-route model and the triangle model. 'Lexical route' regions also showed effects of word imageability. Together with previous imaging studies using semantic task contrasts, the imageability effects are consistent with semantic processing in these brain regions, suggesting that word naming is partly semantically-mediated. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
265	connectionism	1994	LEVITT, JB; YOSHIOKA, T; LUND, JS	INTRINSIC CORTICAL CONNECTIONS IN MACAQUE VISUAL AREA V2 - EVIDENCE FOR INTERACTION BETWEEN DIFFERENT FUNCTIONAL STREAMS	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	Area V2 of macaque visual cortex represents an important but poorly understood stage in visual processing. To provide a better understanding of the region, we studied the organization of its intrinsic cortical connections by making focal (200-300 mu m) iontophoretic microinjections of the tracer biocytin. Alternate tissue sections were tested for biocytin, cytochrome oxidase (CO), or Cat-301 immunoreactivity to localize biocytin label relative to the three stripelike compartments that characterize this area. Biocytin-labeled pyramidal neurons of layers 2/3, and, to a lesser extent, layer 5, provided laterally spreading axon projections that terminated in discrete patches (250-300 mu m diameter), primarily in layers 1-3. Any injected locus in V2 projected to 10-15 similarly sized patches, up to 4 mm from the injection site, and distributed in an elongated field orthogonal to the stripe compartments. We noted prominent patchy connections within, as well as between, individual compartments, perhaps reflecting functional substructures within stripes. Each stripe compartment projected to all three compartments but with different relative frequencies; CO-rich compartments projected mainly to other CO-rich compartments (75%), whereas CO-poor compartments projected equally to CO-rich and CO-poor compartments. We therefore emphasize the existence of substantial interconnections among all three V2 compartments. As further evidence for crosstalk between visual channels, we also noted an input to the V2 ''thick'' CO stripes from V1 cells in layer 4A as a distinct population in addition to the neurons of layer 4B. Thus, the CO stripe architecture may not be a marker for strictly segregated parallel visual pathways through V2. (C) 1994 Wileg-Liss, Inc.
266	connectionism	2006	Williams, LM; Palmer, D; Liddell, BJ; Song, L; Gordon, E	The 'when' and 'where' of perceiving signals of threat versus non-threat	NEUROIMAGE	We tested the proposal that signals of potential threat are given precedence over positive and neutral signals, reflected in earlier and more pronounced changes in neural activity. The temporal sequence ('when') and source localization ('where') of event-related potentials (ERPs) elicited by fearful and happy facial expressions, compared to neutral control expressions, were examined for 219 healthy subjects. We scored ERPs over occipito-temporal sites (N80, 50-120 ms; P120 80-180 ms; N170, 120-220 ms; P230, 180-290 ms; N250, 230-35 ms) and their polarity-reversed counterparts over medial sites (P80, 40-120 ms; N120, 80-150 ms; VPP, 120-220 ms; N200,150-280 ms; P300, 280-450 ms). In addition to scoring peak amplitude and latency, the anatomical sources of activity were determined using low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (LORETA). Fearful faces were distinguished by persistent increases in positivity, associated with a dynamical shift from temporo-frontal (first 120 ms) to more distributed cortical sources (120-220 ms) and back (220-450 ms). By contrast, expressions of happiness produced a discrete enhancement of negativity, later in the time course (230-350 ms) and localized to the fusiform region of the temporal cortex. In common, fear and happiness modulated the face-related N170, and produced generally greater right hemisphere activity. These findings support the proposal that fear signals are given precedence in the neural processing systems, such that processing of positive signals may be suppressed until vigilance for potential danger is completed. While fear may be processed via parallel pathways (one initiated prior to structural encoding), neural systems supporting positively valenced input may be more localized and rely on structural encoding. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
267	connectionism	2005	Peers, PV; Ludwig, CJH; Rorden, C; Cusack, R; Bonfiglioli, C; Bundesen, C; Driver, J; Antoun, N; Duncan, J	Attentional functions of parietal and frontal cortex	CEREBRAL CORTEX	A model of normal attentional function, based on the concept of competitive parallel processing, is used to compare attentional deficits following parietal and frontal lobe lesions. Measurements are obtained for visual processing speed, capacity of visual short-term memory (VSTM), spatial bias (bias to left or right hemifield) and top-down control (selective attention based on task relevance). The results show important differences, but also surprising similarities, in parietal and frontal lobe patients. For processing speed and VSTM, deficits are selectively associated with parietal lesions, in particular lesions of the temporoparietal junction. We discuss explanations based on either grey matter or white matter lesions. In striking contrast, measures of attentional weighting (spatial bias and top-down control) are predicted by simple lesion volume. We suggest that attentional weights reflect competition between broadly distributed object representations. Parietal and frontal mechanisms work together, both in weighting by location and weighting by task context.
268	connectionism	2004	Ramnani, N; Behrens, TEJ; Penny, W; Matthews, PM	New approaches for exploring anatomical and functional connectivity in the human brain	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	Information processing in the primate brain is based on the complementary principles of modular and distributed information processing. The former emphasizes the specialization of functions within different brain areas. The latter emphasizes the massively parallel nature of brain networks and the fact that,function also emerges from the flow of information between brain areas. The localization of function to specific brain areas ("functional segregation") is The commonest approach to investigating function, however, an emerging, complementary approach ("functional integration") describes function in terms of the information flow across networks of areas. Here, we highlight recent advances in neuroimaging methodology that have made it possible to investigate the anatomical architecture of networks in the living human brain with diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). We also highlight recent thinking on the ways in which functional imaging can be used to characterize information transmission across networks in the human brain (functional and effective connectivity).
269	connectionism	1993	MENDELSON, JR; SCHREINER, CE; SUTTER, ML; GRASSE, KL	FUNCTIONAL TOPOGRAPHY OF CAT PRIMARY AUDITORY-CORTEX - RESPONSES TO FREQUENCY-MODULATED SWEEPS	EXPERIMENTAL BRAIN RESEARCH	The spatial distribution of neuronal responses to frequency-modulated (FM) sweeps was mapped with microelectrodes in the primary auditory cortex (AI) of barbiturate-anesthetized cats. Increasing and decreasing FM sweeps (upward- and downward-directed FM sweeps, respectively) covering a range of 0.25 64.0 kHz were presented at three different rates of frequency change over time (i.e., sweep speed). Using multiunit recordings, the high-frequency domain (between 3.2 and 26.3 kHz) of Al was mapped over most of its dorsoventral extent (as determined by the distribution of the excitatory bandwidth, Q10dB) for all six cases studied. The spatial distributions of the preferred sweep speed and the preferred sweep direction were determined for each case. Neuronal responses for frequency sweeps of different speeds appeared to be systematically distributed along the dorsoventral axis of Al. In the dorsal region, cortical cells typically responded best to fast and/or medium FM sweeps, followed more ventrally by cells that responded best to medium - then slow -, then medium-speed FM sweeps. In the more ventral aspect of Al (which in some cases may also have included cells located in the dorsal region of the second auditory field, All), neurons generally preferred fast FM sweeps. However, a comparison of maps from different animals showed that there was more variability in the distribution of preferred speed responses in the ventral region of the cortex. The directional preference of units for FM sweeps was determined for the sweep speed producing the strongest response. Direction selectivity appeared to be nonrandomly distributed along the dorsoventral axis of AI. In general, units that responded best to upward-directed FM sweeps were located in the more dorsal and ventral aspects of Al while units that responded best to downward-directed FM sweeps were usually located in the mid-region of Al. Direction selectivity was also determined for multiunit responses at each of the three FM sweep speeds. In general, there was a relatively close agreement between the spatial distributions of direction selectivity determined for the strongest response with those calculated for the fast and medium speeds. The spatial distribution of direction selectivity determined for slow FM sweeps deviated somewhat from that determined for the strongest response. Near the dorsoventral center of the mapped areas, the distribution of units that responded best to downward sweeps tended to overlay the distribution of units that responded best to slow speeds, suggesting some spatial covariance of the two parameters. However, when the analysis was extended over the entire region of cortex examined in this study, the point-by-point correlation between preferred speed and direction selectivity was not statistically significant. In addition, when neural responses obtained from the dorsal and ventral subregions were analyzed separately, no significant correlation was observed between these two response parameters. This suggests that, for a given cortical location, the response properties of direction selectivity and preferred speed are derived from distinct neural processing mechanisms. Significant observations were also made between preferred FM sweep speed and excitatory bandwidth (i.e., Q10dB and Q40dB) such that units that responded best to slower FM speeds also seemed to have higher Q10dB and Q40dB (i.e. , were narrowly tuned) and vice versa. In addition, units that responded well to a broadband transient stimulus in general preferred faster FM sweeps and vice versa. Although these correlations were significant across the entire dorsoventral extent of Al investigated in this study, they were stronger for responses in the dorsal subregion of Al. For direction selectivity, statistically significant correlations with these response parameters were observed more often in the dorsal than the ventral regions of AI.  The apparent spatial segregation of neuronal responses to different FM sweep speeds and sweep directions distributed along the isofrequency domain of AI suggests that the global aspects of cortical function are compatible with psychopliysically derived notions of parallel streams of processing for different aspects of FM signals.
270	connectionism	1999	Johnson, BA; Woo, CC; Hingco, EE; Pham, KL; Leon, M	Multidimensional chemotopic responses to n-aliphatic acid odorants in the rat olfactory bulb	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	In an effort to understand the means by which similar chemical odorants are encoded in the mammalian brain, we exposed rats to a homologous series of n-aliphatic acids and mapped the response of the entire olfactory bulb glomerular layer by using a high-resolution [C-14]-2-deoxyglucose uptake technique. We found that these similar odorants evoked spatially clustered but distinct responses in the bulb that changed systematically with carbon chain length. In addition to these chemotopic responses, different odorants within the series evoked systematic differences along two other dimensions: amount of deoxyglucose uptake and extent of the glomerular layer showing high activity. Increases along these two dimensions also were correlated with increasing carbon number. The focal glomerular responses were mirrored by responses in deeper bulb layers. Decreasing the odorant concentration decreased the deoxyglucose uptake within focal regions. The focal regions of activity occurred in pairs involving both medial and lateral representations in the bulb, perhaps reflecting the paired medial and lateral projections of olfactory sensory neurons expressing specific types of odorant feature receptor proteins. The observed spatial pattern of response also may explain both the failure of some bulb lesions to interfere with behavioral olfactory responses and the success of other lesions in blocking olfactory responses. These data support a model of parallel, distributed processing of odorants along multiple dimensions. They also support the notion that analyses of the spatial relationships among odorant responses in the olfactory bulb can demonstrate aspects of the mechanism for odor chemical coding. (C) 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
271	connectionism	1996	Hino, Y; Lupker, SJ	Effects of polysemy in lexical decision and naming: An alternative to lexical access accounts	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The effects of polysemy (number of meanings) and word frequency were examined in lexical decision and naming tasks. Polysemy effects were observed in both tasks. In the lexical decision task, high- and low-frequency words produced identical polysemy effects. In the naming task, however, polysemy interacted with frequency, with polysemy effects being limited to low-frequency words. When degraded stimuli were used in both tasks, the interaction appeared not only in naming but also in lexical decision. Because stimulus degradation also produced an effect of spelling-sound regularity in the lexical decision task, the different relationships between polysemy and frequency appear to be due to whether responding was based primarily on orthographic or phonological codes. As such, the effects of polysemy seem to be due to the nature of task-specific processes. An explanation in terms of M. S. Seidenberg and J. L. McClelland's (1989) and D. C. Plaut and J. L. McClelland's (1993) parallel distributed processing models is proposed.
272	connectionism	2001	Cayouette, M; Whitmore, AV; Jeffery, G; Raff, M	Asymmetric segregation of numb in retinal development and the influence of the pigmented epithelium	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Asymmetric segregation of cell-fate determinants during cytokinesis plays an important part in controlling cell-fate choice in invertebrates. During Drosophila neurogenesis, for example, asymmetric segregation of the Numb protein, which inhibits Notch signaling, is necessary for the two daughter cells of a division to have different fates. In vertebrates, the role of asymmetric segregation of cell-fate determinants is uncertain, and the way the process might be regulated is unknown. We have studied the orientation of cell divisions and the distribution of Numb in the developing rat retina. We show that, whereas most retinal neuroepithelial cells divide with their mitotic spindles oriented parallel to the plane of the neuroepithelium, a substantial minority divides with their spindles oriented perpendicularly. The proportion of these vertically dividing cells changes during development, peaking around the day of birth. Numb appears to be inherited only by the apical daughter cell when a neuroepithelial cell divides vertically. Similarly, in dissociated cell cultures, some retinal neuroepithelial cells divide asymmetrically and distribute Numb to only one of the two daughter cells, suggesting that the dissociated cells can retain their polarity in vitro. Using retinal explant cultures, we find that the retinal pigment epithelium apparently promotes vertical divisions in the neural retina. To our knowledge, this is the first evidence that asymmetric segregation of cell-fate determinants may contribute to cell diversification in the mammalian retina and that an epithelium controls this process by influencing the plane of division in the adjacent neural retina.
273	connectionism	1991	SHANKS, DR	CATEGORIZATION BY A CONNECTIONIST NETWORK	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	Three experiments tested a simple connectionist network approach to human categorization. The specific network considered consists of a layer of input nodes, each representing a feature of the exemplar to be categorized, connected in parallel to a layer of output nodes representing the categories. Learning to categorize exemplars consists of adjusting the weights in the network so as to increase the probability of making correct categorizations; weight changes are determined by the Rescorla-Wagner (1972) learning rule. The experiments used a simulated medical diagnosis procedure in which subjects have to decide which disease (the category) each of a series of patients is suffering from on the basis of the patients' symptoms (the features). After a series of trials, the subjects rated the extent to which particular symptoms were associated with particular diseases. In each of the experiments, it is shown that a process of selective learning occurs in this categorization task and that selection in turn depends on the relative predictiveness of the symptom for the disease. Such effects parallel results found in animal conditioning experiments and are readily reproduced by the connectionist network model. The results are also discussed in terms of a variety of traditional theories of categorization.
274	connectionism	1999	Kornblum, S; Stevens, GT; Whipple, A; Requin, J	The effects of irrelevant stimuli: 1. The time course of stimulus-stimulus and stimulus-response consistency effects with Stroop-like stimuli, Simon-like tasks, and their factorial combinations	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The effects of Simon- and Stroop-like stimuli are examined in isolation and in factorial combinations with different delays between the presentation of the irrelevant and the relevant stimuli. The effects of irrelevant stimuli have different time courses depending on whether they overlap with the relevant stimulus (stimulus-stimulus overlap, Dimensional Overlap [DO] Type 4) or with the response (stimulus-response overlap, DO type 3). A new, computational, parallel distributed processing (PDP)-type model, DO'97, is presented that is based on the original DO model (S. Kornblum, 1994; S. Kornblum, T. Hasbroucq, Br A. Osman, 1990), and it postulates a nonmonotone irrelevant stimulus activation function in addition to 2 temporally ordered, serial, nonindependent stages: a stimulus processing stage and a response production stage. DO'97 is able to simulate the temporal dynamic characteristics of the processes, with good fits to the empirical data. of this study and other published studies, at the level of means, variances, and distributional plots.
275	connectionism	1995	HOF, PR; NIMCHINSKY, EA; MORRISON, JH	NEUROCHEMICAL PHENOTYPE OF CORTICOCORTICAL CONNECTIONS IN THE MACAQUE MONKEY - QUANTITATIVE-ANALYSIS OF A SUBSET OF NEUROFILAMENT PROTEIN-IMMUNOREACTIVE PROJECTION NEURONS IN FRONTAL, PARIETAL, TEMPORAL, AND CINGULATE CORTICES	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	The neurochemical characteristics of the neuronal subsets that furnish different types of corticocortical connections have been only partially determined. In recent years, several cytoskeletal proteins have emerged as reliable markers to distinguish subsets of pyramidal neurons in the cerebral cortex of primates. In particular, previous studies using an antibody to nonphosphorylated neurofilament protein (SMI-32) have revealed a consistent degree of regional and laminar specificity in the distribution of a subpopulation of pyramidal cells in the primate cerebral cortex. The density of neurofilament protein-immunoreactive neurons was shown to vary across corticocortical pathways in macaque monkeys. In the present study, we have used the antibody SMI-32 to examine further and to quantify the distribution of a subset of corticocortically projecting neurons in a series of long ipsilateral corticocortical pathways in comparison to short corticocortical, commissural, and limbic connections. The results demonstrate that the long association pathways interconnecting the frontal, parietal, and temporal neocortex have a high representation of neurofilament protein-enriched pyramidal neurons (45-90%), whereas short corticocortical, callosal, and limbic pathways are characterized by much lower numbers of such neurons (4-35%). These data suggest that different types of corticocortical connections have differential representation of highly specific neuronal subsets that share common neurochemical characteristics, thereby determining regional and laminar cortical patterns of morphological and molecular heterogeneity. These differences in neuronal neurochemical phenotype among corticocortical circuits may have considerable influence on cortical processing and may be directly related to the type of integrative function subserved by each cortical pathway. Finally, it is worth noting that neurofilament protein-immunoreactive neurons are dramatically affected in the course of Alzheimer's disease. The present results support the hypothesis that neurofilament protein may be crucially linked to the development of selective neuronal vulnerability and subsequent disruption of corticocortical pathways that lead to the severe impairment of cognitive function commonly observed in age-related dementing disorders. (C) 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
276	connectionism	1995	BULLIER, J; NOWAK, LG	PARALLEL VERSUS SERIAL PROCESSING - NEW VISTAS ON THE DISTRIBUTED ORGANIZATION OF THE VISUAL-SYSTEM	CURRENT OPINION IN NEUROBIOLOGY	Recent functional studies question the validity of the hierarchical model of organization for processing visual information in cortical areas. The results of these studies suggest that beyond the primary visual cortex (V1), information is not serially processed through successive cortical areas, but that it is simultaneously processed in several areas. The idea that visual information is functionally segregated into different, parallel channels as it circulates through V1 and V2 towards V4 and the middle temporal visual area is also challenged by recent studies that report a smaller degree of functional specialization within the visual areas than previously thought.
277	connectionism	1992	FETZ, EE	ARE MOVEMENT PARAMETERS RECOGNIZABLY CODED IN THE ACTIVITY OF SINGLE NEURONS	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	To investigate neural mechanisms of movement, physiologists have analyzed the activity of task-related neurons in behaving animals. The relative onset latencies of neural activity have been scrutinized for evidence of a functional hierarchy of sequentially recruited centers, but experiments reveal that activity changes occur largely in parallel. Neurons whose activity covaries with movement parameters have been sought for evidence of explicit coding of parameters such as active force, limb displacement, and behavioral set. Neurons with recognizable relations to the task are typically selected from a larger population, ignoring those cells with complex relations to the task and unmodulated cells. Selective interpretations are also used to support the notion that different motor regions perform different motor functions, again, current evidence suggests that units with similar properties are distributed over widely different regions. These coding issues are reexamined for premotoneuronal (Pre M) cells, whose correlational links with motoneurons are revealed by spike-triggered averages. Pre M cells are recruited over long times relative to their target muscles, they show diverse response patterns relative to the muscle force they produce, functionally disparate PreM cells such as afferent fibers and descending corticomotoneuronal and rubromotoneuronal cells can exhibit similar patterns. Neural mechanisms have been further elucidated by neural network simulations of sensorimotor behavior, the pre-output hidden units typically show diverse response patterns in relation to their target units. Thus, studies in which both the activity and the connectivity of the same units are known reveal that units with both simple and complex relations to the task contribute significantly to the output. This suggests that the search for explicit coding may be diverting us from understanding distributed neural mechanisms that operate without literal representations.
278	connectionism	2009	Pulvermuller, F; Shtyrov, Y; Hauk, O	Understanding in an instant: Neurophysiological evidence for mechanistic language circuits in the brain	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	How long does it take the human mind to grasp the idea when hearing or reading a sentence? Neurophysiological methods looking directly at the time course of brain activity indexes of comprehension are critical for finding the answer to this question. As the dominant cognitive approaches, models of serial/cascaded and parallel processing, make conflicting predictions on the time course of psycholinguistic information access, they can be tested using neurophysiological brain activation recorded in MEG and EEG experiments. Seriality and cascading of lexical, semantic and syntactic processes receives support from late (latency similar to 1/2 s) sequential neurophysiological responses, especially N400 and P600. However, parallelism is substantiated by early near-simultaneous brain indexes of a range of psycholinguistic processes, up to the level of semantic access and context integration, emerging already 100-250 ms after critical stimulus information is present. Crucially, however, there are reliable latency differences of 20-50 ms between early cortical area activations reflecting lexical, semantic and syntactic processes, which are left unexplained by current serial and parallel brain models of language. We here offer a mechanistic model grounded in cortical nerve cell circuits that builds upon neuroanatomical and neurophysiological knowledge and explains both near-simultaneous activations and fine-grained delays. A key concept is that of discrete distributed cortical circuits with specific inter-area topographies. The full activation, or ignition, of specifically distributed binding circuits explains the near-simultaneity of early neurophysiological indexes of lexical, syntactic and semantic processing. Activity spreading within circuits determined by between-area conduction delays accounts for comprehension-related regional activation differences in the millisecond range. (C) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
279	connectionism	2001	Patterson, K; Ralph, MAL; Hodges, JR; McClelland, JL	Deficits in irregular past-tense verb morphology associated with degraded semantic knowledge	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Two distinct mechanisms are often considered necessary to account for generation of the past-tense of English verbs: a lexical associative process For irregular forms like speak --> spoke, and a rule-governed process ('add -ed') for regular and novel forms like talk --> talked and wug --> wugged. An alternative account based on a parallel-distributed processing approach proposes that one complex procedure processes all past-tense types. In this alternative view, neuropsychological dissociations are explained by reduced input from word meaning that plays a greater role in successful generation of the past-tense for lower frequency irregular verbs, and by phonological deficits that disproportionately affect regular and novel forms. Only limited evidence has been available concerning the relationship between knowledge of word meaning and verb-tense processing. The study reported here evaluated the past-tense verb abilities of ii patients with semantic dementia, a neurodegenerative condition characterised by degraded semantic knowledge. We predicted and confirmed that the patients would have essentially normal ability to generate and recognise regular land novel past-tense Forms, bur a marked and frequency-modulated deficit on irregular verbs. Across the set of 11 patients, the degree of impairment for the irregular past-tense was significantly correlated with the degree of comprehension impairment as measured by verb synonym judgements. These results. plus other features of the data such as the nature of the errors to irregular verbs, are discussed in relation to currently developing theories of the language system. (C) 2001 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.
280	connectionism	1992	HEIL, P; RAJAN, R; IRVINE, DRF	SENSITIVITY OF NEURONS IN CAT PRIMARY AUDITORY-CORTEX TO TONES AND FREQUENCY-MODULATED STIMULI .2. ORGANIZATION OF RESPONSE PROPERTIES ALONG THE ISOFREQUENCY DIMENSION	HEARING RESEARCH	The spatial distribution of neuronal responses to tones and frequency-modulated (FM) stimuli was mapped along the 'isofrequency' dimension of the primary auditory cortex (AI) of barbiturate-anesthetized cats. In each cat, electrode penetrations roughly orthogonal to the cortical surface were closely spaced (average separation almost-equal-to 130 mum) along the dorsoventral extent of a single 'isofrequency' strip in high frequency parts of AI ( > 15 kHz). Characteristic frequency (CF), minimum threshold, sharpness of frequency tuning (Q10 and Q20), the dynamic range of the spike count-intensity function at CF, sensitivity to the rate of change of frequency (RCF) and to the direction of frequency-modulation (DS) were determined for contralaterally-presented tone and FM stimuli. Sharpness of tuning attained maximum values at central loci along the dorsoventral 'isofrequency' axis and values declined towards more dorsal and more ventral locations. Minimum threshold and dynamic range varied between high and low values in a similar and correlated periodic fashion. Their combined organization yielded an orderly spatial representation of response strength, relative to maximum, as a function of stimulus amplitude. The distributions of the most common forms of FM rate sensitivity (RCF response categories) and best RCF along 'isofrequency' strips were significantly non-random although there was a considerable degree of variability between cats. FM directional preference and sensitivity appeared to be randomly distributed. Sharpness of tuning may be related to the analysis of the spectral content of an acoustic stimulus, both minimum threshold and dynamic range are related to the encoding of stimulus intensity, and measures of FM rate and directional sensitivity assess the coding of temporal changes of stimulus spectra. The independent, or for minimum threshold and dynamic range dependent, topographic organizations of these neuronal parameters therefore suggest parallel and independent processing of these aspects of acoustic signals, in AI.
281	connectionism	2003	Pins, D; ffytche, D	The neural correlates of conscious vision	CEREBRAL CORTEX	Conflicting accounts of the neurobiology of consciousness have emerged from previous imaging studies. Some studies suggest that visual consciousness relates to a distributed network of frontal and partietal regions while others point to localized activity within individual visual areas. While the two positions seem mutually exclusive, timing issues may help reconcile the two. Networks that appear unified in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies may reflect processes that are widely distributed in time. To help resolve this issue, we have investigated timing across a network correlating with consciousness in parallel fMRI and evoked potential (EP) studies of grating stimuli. At threshold, a stimulus is perceived on some occasions but not on others, dissociating sensory input and perception. We have found correlates of consciousness in the occipital lobe at 100 ms and in parietal, frontal, auditory and motor regions from 260 ms onwards. The broad temporal and spatial distribution of activity argues against a unified, distributed fronto-parietal correlate of consciousness. Instead, it suggests that correlates of consciousness are divided into primary and secondary network nodes, with early activity in the occipital lobe correlating with perception and later activity in downstream areas with secondary processes contingent on the outcome of earlier perceptual processing.
282	connectionism	1999	Zhang, HZH; Zhang, J; Kornblum, S	A parallel distributed processing model of stimulus-stimulus and stimulus-response compatibility	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	A parallel distributed processing (PDP) model is proposed to account for choice reaction time (RT) performance in diverse cognitive and perceptual tasks such as the Stroop task, the Simon task, the Eriksen flanker task, and the stimulus-response compatibility task that are interrelated in terms of stimulus-stimulus and stimulus-response overlap (Kornblum, 1992). In multilayered;(input-intermediate-output) networks, neuron-like nodes that represent stimulus and response features are grouped into mutually inhibitory modules that represent stimulus and response dimensions. The stimulus-stimulus overlap is implemented by a convergence of two input modules onto a common intermediate module, and the stimulus-response overlap by direct pathways representing automatic priming of outputs. Mean RTs are simulated in various simple tasks and, furthermore, predictions are generated for complex tasks based on performance in simpler tasks. The match between simulated and experimental results lends strong support for our PDP model of compatibility. (C) 1999 Academic Press.
283	connectionism	2005	Freeman, AW	Multistage model for binocular rivalry	JOURNAL OF NEUROPHYSIOLOGY	Binocular rivalry is the alternating perception that occurs when incompatible stimuli are presented to the two eyes: one monocular stimulus dominates vision and then the other stimulus dominates, with a perceptual switch occurring every few seconds. There is a need for a binocular rivalry model that accounts for both well- established results on the timing of dominance intervals and for more recent evidence on the distributed neural processing of rivalry. The model for binocular rivalry developed here consists of four parallel visual channels, two driven by the left eye and two by the right. Each channel consists of several consecutive processing stages representing successively higher cortical levels, with mutual inhibition between the channels at each stage. All stages are architecturally identical. With n the number of stages, the model is implemented as 4n nonlinear differential equations using a total of eight parameters. Despite the simplicity of its architecture, the model accounts for a variety of experimental observations: 1) the increasing depth of rivalry at higher cortical areas, as shown in electrophysiological, imaging, and psychophysical experiments; 2) the unimodal probability density of dominance durations, where the mode is less than the mean; 3) the lack of correlation between successive dominance durations; 4) the effect of interocular stimulus differences on dominance duration; and 5) eye suppression, as opposed to feature suppression. The model is potentially applicable to issues of visual processing more general than binocular rivalry.
284	connectionism	2003	Gritti, I; Manns, ID; Mainville, L; Jones, BE	Parvalbumin, calbindin, or calretinin in cortically projecting and GABAergic, cholinergic, or glutamatergic basal forebrain neurons of the rat	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	The basal forebrain (BF) plays an important role in modulating cortical activity and facilitating processes of attention, learning, and memory. This role is subserved by cholinergic neurons but also requires the participation of other noncholinergic neurons. Noncholinergic neurons include gamma-amino butyric acidergic (GABAergic) neurons, some of which project in parallel with the cholinergic cells to the cerebral cortex, others of which project caudally or locally. With the original aim of distinguishing different subgroups of GABAergic neurons, we examined immunostaining for the calcium binding proteins (CBPs) parvalbumin (Parv), calbindin (Calb), and calretinin (Calret) in the rat. Although the CBP+ cell groups were distributed in a coextensive manner with the GABAergic cells, they were collectively more numerous. Of cells retrogradely labeled with cholera toxin (CT) from the prefrontal or parietal cortex, Parv(+) and Calb(+) cells, but not Calret(+) cells, represented substantial proportions (similar to35-45% each) that collectively were greater than that of GABAergic projection neurons. From dual immunostaining for the CBPs and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), it appeared that the vast majority (>90%) of the Parv(+) group was GAD(+), whereas only a small minority (<10%) of the Calb(+) or Calret(+) group was GAD(+). Significant proportions of Calb(+) (>40%) and Calret+ (>80%) neurons were immunopositive for phosphate-activated glutaminase, the synthetic enzyme for transmitter glutamate. The results suggested that, whereas Calret(+) cells predominantly comprise caudally or locally projecting, possibly glutamatergic BF neurons, Parv(+) cells likely comprise the cortically projecting GABAergic BF neurons and Calb(+) cells the cortically projecting, possibly glutamatergic BF neurons that would collectively participate with the cholinergic cells in the modulation of cortical activity.
285	connectionism	2009	Mundy, P; Sullivan, L; Mastergeorge, AM	A Parallel and Distributed-Processing Model of Joint Attention, Social Cognition and Autism	AUTISM RESEARCH	The impaired development of joint attention is a cardinal feature of autism. Therefore, understanding the nature of joint attention is central to research on this disorder. joint attention may be best defined in terms of an information-processing system that begins to develop by 4-6 months of age. This system integrates the parallel processing of internal information about one's own visual attention with external information about the visual attention of other people. This type of joint encoding of information about self and other attention requires the activation of a distributed anterior and posterior cortical attention network. Genetic regulation, in conjunction with self-organizing behavioral activity, guides the development of functional connectivity in this network. With practice in infancy the joint processing of self-other attention becomes automatically engaged as an executive function. It can be argued that this executive joint attention is fundamental to human learning as well as the development of symbolic thought, social cognition and social competence throughout the life span. One advantage of this parallel and distributed-processing model of joint attention is that it directly connects theory on social pathology to a range of phenomena in autism associated with neural connectivity, constructivist and connectionist models of cognitive development, early intervention, activity-dependent gene expression and atypical ocular motor control.
286	connectionism	2002	Au, WW; Treloar, HB; Greer, CA	Sublaminar organization of the mouse olfactory bulb nerve layer	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	Olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) axons coalesce to form the olfactory nerve (ON) and then grow from the olfactory epithelium to the olfactory bulb (OB), enter the olfactory nerve layer (ONL), reorganize extensively, and innervate specific glomeruli. Within the ON and ONL a population of glial cells, the olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs), surround OSN axon fascicles. To better understand the relationship between OECs and axon fascicles in the ONL of the adult mouse, we used confocal microscopy and antibodies to the low affinity nerve growth factor receptor p75 (p75), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), neuropeptide Y (NPY), and S-100 to identify glia. Antibodies to olfactory marker protein (OMP) and neuronal cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) were used to identify OSN axons. Electron microscopy characterized the ONL ultrastructure. We found that glial processes were not uniformly distributed in the ONL of the mouse. The p75(+) OEC processes were restricted to the ON and the outer ONL sublamina, and oriented parallel to the plane of the OB layers. In the inner ONL NPY OEC-like processes were seen. GFAP(+) processes were restricted to the inner ONL sublamina, the ONL/GL boundary, and the GL, where they delineated loosely aggregated axon fascicles that entered the glomeruli obliquely. S-100(+) processes and somata were distributed throughout the ONL; the outer and inner ONL were equivalent in their S-100 staining. Ultrastructural studies showed that, although OECs could be identified in both the outer and inner ONL, in the latter, their relationship to bundles of OEC axons appeared less orderly than seen in the outer ONL. Our data demonstrate a differential organization of the ONL that could subserve distinct functions; axon extension may occur predominately in the outermost ONL, whereas glomerular targeting occurs in the inner sublamina of the ONL. J. Comp. Neurol. 446:68 - 80, 2002. (C) 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
287	connectionism	2000	Sassin, I; Schultz, C; Thal, DR; Rub, U; Arai, K; Braak, E; Braak, H	Evolution of Alzheimer's disease-related cytoskeletal changes in the basal nucleus of Meynert	ACTA NEUROPATHOLOGICA	This study examines the evolution of Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related pathology in a subcortical predilection site, the basal nucleus of Meynert (bnM), which is a major source of cortical cholinergic innervation. Brains of 51 autopsy cases were studied using silver techniques and immunostaining for tau-associated neurofibrillary pathology and for amyloid beta protein (A beta) deposits. All cases are classified according to a procedure permitting differentiation of six stages of AD-related neurofibrillary changes in the cerebral cortex. Initial cytoskeletal abnormalities in the bnM are already noted in stage I of cortical neurofibrillary changes. The gradual development of the neurofibrillary pathology in the bnM parallels the progression of the AD-related stages in the cerebral cortex. A variety of morphologically distinguishable cytoskeletal alterations are observed in large nerve cells which predominate in the bnM. Based on these cellular alterations, a sequence of cytoskeletal deterioration is proposed. Initially, the abnormal tau protein is distributed diffusely throughout the cell body and the neuronal processes. Subsequently, it aggregates to form a neurofibrillary tangle, which appears as a spherical somatic inclusion. The cell processes gradually become fragmented. Finally the parent cell dies, leaving behind an extraneuronal "ghost tangle". With regard to the cortical stages of AD-related neurofibrillary changes, the initial forms of cytoskeletal changes in the bnM predominate in the transentorhinal AD stages (I and II), while "ghost tangles" preferentially occur in the neocortical stages (V and VI). The considerable morphological diversity of cytoskeletal alterations is typical of stages III and IV. These results indicate that individual neurons of the bnM enter the sequence of cytoskeletal deterioration at different times.
288	connectionism	1992	BLOOMFIELD, SA	RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN RECEPTIVE AND DENDRITIC FIELD SIZE OF AMACRINE CELLS IN THE RABBIT RETINA	JOURNAL OF NEUROPHYSIOLOGY	1. Intracellular recordings were obtained from 40 amacrine cells in the isolated, superfused retina eyecup of the rabbit. Cells were subsequently labeled with horseradish peroxidase for morphological identification. Many of these cells displayed dendritic morphology consistent with that of amacrine cells described in prior anatomic studies, including starburst, A17, AII, and DAPI-3 cells. 2. The center receptive field of amacrine cells was measured with a 50- or 95-mum-wide, 6.0-mm-long rectangular slit of light that was displaced along its minor axis (parallel to the visual streak) in increments as small as 3 mum. The extent of the receptive field was calculated as the total distance over which the displaced slit could evoke a center response. Area summation of amacrine cells was measured with concentric spots of light with increasing diameters centered over the cell. 3. For a single amacrine cell, the receptive field size was comparable to the extent of its dendritic arbor. For the total population of amacrine cells, there was a strong, linear relationship between receptive field and dendritic field size. The receptive fields were, on average, 27% larger than the corresponding dendritic arbors, but this discrepancy can be accounted for entirely by tissue shrinkage associated with histological processing and a small imprecision of the light stimuli. Area summation measurements were consistent with those of receptive fields and were also related linearly to the dendritic field size of cells. 4. These findings indicate that even when the slit of light was placed at the distal edges of the dendritic arbor, synaptic inputs activated there were propagated effectively to the soma and recorded by microelectrodes placed there. In addition, amacrine cells were capable of summating synaptic inputs distributed throughout the entire arbor. 5. These results are inconsistent with the findings of prior computational modeling studies of passive, dendritic current flow in A17 and starburst amacrine cells that synaptic inputs on distal dendritic branches are isolated electrically from the soma and that these branches form autonomous, functional subunits. 6. The majority of amacrine cells encountered displayed light-evoked and/or spontaneous action potentials. These action potentials often took the form of high-amplitude somatic and low-amplitude dendritic spikes. On average, spiking amacrine cells showed considerably larger dendritic fields than nonspiking amacrine cells. In fact, all amacrine cells with arbors > 436 mum, which formed 45% of the total population, displayed spike activity. These data suggest that spike generation is a feature common to most medium- and large-field amacrine cells, permitting active propagation of synaptic currents over distances often > 1 mm. 7. Thus the discrepancy between the present electrophysiological data and those of prior modeling studies may be explained by the fact that synaptic inputs to most amacrine cells are not propagated passively within the arbor but rather by an active, regenerative process.
289	connectionism	1993	DEAR, SP; FRITZ, J; HARESIGN, T; FERRAGAMO, M; SIMMONS, JA	TONOTOPIC AND FUNCTIONAL-ORGANIZATION IN THE AUDITORY-CORTEX OF THE BIG BROWN BAT, EPTESICUS-FUSCUS	JOURNAL OF NEUROPHYSIOLOGY	1.  In Eptesicus the auditory cortex, as defined by electrical activity recorded from microelectrodes in response to tone bursts, FM sweeps, and combinations of FM sweeps, encompasses an average cortical surface area of 5.7 mm2.  This area is large with respect to the total cortical surface area and reflects the importance of auditory processing to this species of bat. 2.  The predominant pattern of organization in response to tone bursts observed in each cortex is tonotopic, with three discernible divisions revealed by our data.  However, although cortical best-frequency (BF) maps from most of the individual bats are similar, no two maps are identical.  The largest division contains an average of 84% of the auditory cortical surface area, with BF tonotopically mapped from high to low along the anteroposterior axis and is part of the primary auditory cortex.  The medium division encompasses an average of 13% of the auditory cortical surface area, with highly variable BF organization across bats.  The third region is the smallest, with an average of only 3% of auditory cortical surface area and is located at the anterolateral  edge of the cortex.  The region is marked by a reversal of the tonotopic axis and a restriction in the range of BFs as compared with the larger, tonotopically organized division. 3.  A population of cortical neurons was found (n = 39) in which each neuron exhibited two BF threshold minima (BF1 and BF2) in response to tone bursts.  These neurons thus have multipeaked frequency threshold tuning curves.  In Eptesicus the majority of multipeaked frequency-tuned neurons (n = 27) have threshold minima at frequencies that correspond to a harmonic ratio of three-to-one.  In contrast, the majority of multipeaked neurons in cats have threshold minima at frequencies in a ratio of three-to-two. A three-to-one harmonic ratio corresponds to the ''spectral notches'' produced by interference between overlapping echoes from multiple reflective surfaces in complex sonar targets.  Behavioral experiments have demonstrated the ability of Eptesicus to use spectral interference notches for perceiving target shape, and this subpopulation of multipeaked frequency-tuned neurons may be involved in coding of spectral notches. 4.  The auditory cortex contains delay-tuned neurons that encode target range (n = 99).  Most delay-tuned neurons respond poorly to tones or individual FM sweeps and require combinations of FM sweeps.  They are combination sensitive and delay tuned.  The response of cortical delay-tuned neurons is phasic with an average of 1.1 +/- 0.6 (mean +/- SD) action potentials per pulse-echo pair.  Thus delay-tuned neurons act as coincidence detectors without additional facilitation. 5.  The distribution of best echo delays (BDs) of cortical delay-tuned neurons appears bimodal, with neurons in the first mode (n = 33) encompassing BDs from 2 to approximately 11 ms and the second mode (n = 66) from approximately 11 to 28 ms.  The distribution of BDs in the first mode is similar to the range of BDs seen in other species of bats, but the distribution of BDs encompassed by the second mode appears unique and suggests a longer working range for echolocation in this species.  As an ensemble, cortical delay-tuned neurons encode target ranges of 34-484 cm, corresponding to the behaviorally observed 5-m limit for the detection of insect-sized objects. 6.  Delay-tuned neurons in the tonotopically organized area (n = 36) typically exhibit shorter BDs and longer echo facilitation latencies (EFLs) than delay-tuned neurons in the variable frequency area (n = 48).  These differences are statistically significant and suggest that delay-tuned neurons in the variable and tonotopic regions constitute separate, multiple representations of target range information. 7.  The distribution of BDs delay-tuned neurons is not topographically arrayed across the auditory cortex, at least not on the same large scale as tonotopic frequency organization. 8.  Some (13 out of 25 tested) delay-tuned neurons systematically shifted their BDs in response to changes in the simulated pulse amplitude.  These delay-tuned neurons are termed ''amplitude shift'' neurons.  Of the 13 amplitude shift neurons, 11 exhibited a decrease in BD in response to decreasing pulse amplitudes, and 2 exhibited an increase in BD in response to decreasing pulse amplitudes.  Amplitude shift cells shifted their BD by an average 11 +/- 8 ms for an average change of 13 +/- 8 dB SPL.  The location of amplitude shift cells appears randomly distributed among delay-tuned neurons in the variable and tonotopic areas. 9.  We develop a conceptual framework to understand the nontopographic organization of BDs by considering the overlapping multipeaked frequency-tuned and delay-tuned cortical fields in Eptesicus as parallel spectral and temporal components of a target range imaging process.
290	connectionism	2008	Abraham, WC; Williams, JM	LTP maintenance and its protein synthesis-dependence	NEUROBIOLOGY OF LEARNING AND MEMORY	The properties of long-term potentiation (LTP) mirror those of associative memory in a number of interesting ways. Although plasticity at monosynaptic connections is not expected to account for the varied subtle characteristics of distributed memories, nonetheless it is important to establish how far the parallels can be drawn. Here, we briefly address whether properties of LTP such as its duration, reversibility, savings and reconsolidation relate to corresponding memory phenomena. We then address whether LTP stabilization in fact requires protein synthesis, as this has been challenged in recent times much like the necessity for protein synthesis in the consolidation of long-term memory has been queried. We conclude that the case is still very strong for a necessary role of protein synthesis in LTP stabilization, even though the identities of the synthesized proteins and their contributions to the LTP process are not fully understood. However, we highlight areas of research that could be usefully conducted to further our understanding of the properties and protein synthesis-dependence of LTP. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
291	connectionism	1994	MANIS, PB; SPIROU, GA; WRIGHT, DD; PAYDAR, S; RYUGO, DK	PHYSIOLOGY AND MORPHOLOGY OF COMPLEX SPIKING NEURONS IN THE GUINEA-PIG DORSAL COCHLEAR NUCLEUS	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	Intracellular recordings from the dorsal cochlear nucleus have identified cells with both simple and complex action potential waveforms. We investigated the hypothesis that cartwheel cells are a specific cell type that generates complex action potentials, based on their analogous anatomical, developmental, and biochemical similarities to cerebellar Purkinje cells, which are known to discharge complex action potentials. Intracellular recordings were made from a brain slice preparation of the guinea pig dorsal cochlear nucleus. A subpopulation of cells discharged a series of two or three action potentials riding on a slow depolarization as an all-or-none event; this discharge pattern is called a complex spike or burst. These cells also exhibited anodal break bursts, anomalous rectification, subthreshold inward rectification, and frequent inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs). Seven complex-spiking cells were stained with intracellular dyes and subsequently identified as cartwheel neurons. In contrast, six identified simple-spiking cells recorded in concurrent experiments were pyramidal cells. The cartwheel cell bodies reside in the lower part of layer 1 and the upper part of layer 2 of the nucleus. The cells are characterized by spiny dendrites penetrating the molecular layer, a lack of basal dendritic processes, and an axonal plexus invading layers 2 and 3, and the inner regions of layer 1. The cartwheel cell axons made putative synaptic contacts at the light microscopic level with pyramidal cells and small cells, including stellate cells, granule cells, and other cartwheel cells in layers 1 and 2. The axonal plexus of individual cartwheel cells suggests that they can inhibit cells receiving input from either the same or adjacent parallel fibers and that this inhibition is distributed along the isofrequency contours of the nucleus. (C) 1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
292	connectionism	2008	Fox, CJ; Iaria, G; Barton, JJS	Disconnection in prosopagnosia and face processing	CORTEX	Face perception is a function with significant complexity, reflected in cognitive models that propose a hierarchy of parallel and serial processing stages. Current neuroimaging data also show that face perception involves a core processing network of cortical modules, which are likely specialized for different functions involved in face processing. The core face processing network is further linked to an extended face processing network which is not solely involved in the perception of faces, but rather contains modules mediating the processing of semantic, biographic and emotional information about people. The segregation of these processes within discrete anatomic regions creates the potential for disconnection between regions to generate neuropsychological deficits involving faces. In this review we consider the types of disconnection possible both within the core face processing system and between the core and extended systems, the pattern of deficits that would be considered as evidence of such disconnections, the potential anatomy of lesions that would create them, and whether any cases exist that meet these criteria. (C) 2008 Elsevier Masson Srl. All rights reserved.
293	connectionism	1998	Brown, LL; Smith, DM; Goldbloom, LM	Organizing principles of cortical integration in the rat neostriatum: Corticostriate map of the body surface is an ordered lattice of curved laminae and radial points	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	The neuroanatomic organizing principles underlying integrative functions in the striatum are only partially understood. Within the three major subdivisions of the striatum-sensorimotor, associative, and limbic-longitudinal zones of axonal plexuses from the cerebral cortex end in bands and clusters that innervate cell groups. To identify organizing principles of the corticostriate bands and clusters, are localized somatosensory cortical cells receptive to light touch on the hindlimb, forelimb, or vibrissae by extracellular recording, and we labeled their projections by iontophoretic application of dextran anterograde tracers. The results show that cortical cells in columnar groups project to the striatum in the form of successive strips, or laminae, that parallel the curve of the external capsule. The vibrissae somatosensory cortex projects to the most lateral lamina. Just medial to the vibrissae projection, the major axonal arborizations arising from hindlimb and forelimb somatosensory cortex are organized within a common lamina, where they interdigitate and overlap as well as remain separate. In addition, the hindlimb and forelimb cortex send small projections to the vibrissae lamina, and vice versa, forming broken, radially oriented lines of points across the laminar strips. The major somatosensory projections are in the dorsolateral, calbindin-poor sensorimotor striatum, whereas the radially oriented projection points extend into the medial, calbindin-rich associative striatum. Extending previous studies of corticostriate projections, this report shows a grid translation of columnar somatosensory cortical inputs into striatum and a detailed map for the rat sensorimotor zone. The lattice-like grid is a novel functional/neuroanatomic organization that is ideal for distributing, combining, and integrating information for sensorimotor and cognitive processing. (C) 1998 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
294	connectionism	1994	KURATA, K	INFORMATION-PROCESSING FOR MOTOR CONTROL IN PRIMATE PREMOTOR CORTEX	BEHAVIOURAL BRAIN RESEARCH	Recent neurophysiological as well as neuropsychological studies provided evidences on how various informations are processed to generate motor programs in the central nervous system. In this article, functional specializations of two distinct cortical motor areas, the dorsal and ventral aspects of the premotor cortex (PMd and PMv, respectively) of macaque monkeys, are focused to review this issue. Three major conclusions emerged from recent neurophysiological studies. First, each of movement parameters such as amplitude and direction is distinctively programmed in PMd by serial integration, rather than by parallel distributed processing. Second, in performance of conditional motor behavior, conditionally presented sensory signals are processed for motor preparation and execution of an intended act in PMd, but not in PMv. Third, PMv may be specialized for motor execution under visual guidance.
295	connectionism	2008	Luna, B; Velanova, K; Geier, CF	Development of eye-movement control	BRAIN AND COGNITION	Cognitive control of behavior continues to improve through adolescence in parallel with important brain maturational processes including synaptic pruning and myelination, which allow for efficient neuronal computations and the functional integration of widely distributed circuitries supporting top-down control of behavior. This is also a time when psychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia and mood disorders, emerge reflecting a particularly vulnerability to impairments in development during adolescence. Oculomotor studies provide a unique neuroscientific approach to make precise associations between cognitive control and brain circuitry during development that can inform us of impaired systems in psychopathology, In this review, we first describe the development Of pursuit, fixation, and visually-guided saccadic eye movements, which collectively indicate early maturation of basic sensorimotor processes supporting reflexive, exogenously-driven eye movements. We then describe the literature on the development of the cognitive control of eye movements as reflected in the ability to inhibit a prepotent eye movement in the antisaccade task, as well as making an eye movement guided by on-line spatial information in working memory in the oculomotor delayed response task. Results indicate that the ability to make eye movements in a voluntary fashion driven by endogenous plans shows a protracted development into adolescence. Characterizing the transition through adolescence to adult-level cognitive control of behavior can inform models aimed at understanding the neurodevelopmental basis of psychiatric disorders. (C) 2008 Published by Elsevier Inc.
296	connectionism	1999	Sklar, AE; Sarter, NB	Good vibrations: Tactile feedback in support of attention allocation and human-automation coordination in event-driven domains	HUMAN FACTORS	Observed breakdowns in human-machine communication can be explained, in part, by the nature of current automation feedback, which relies heavily on focal visual attention. Such feedback is not well suited for capturing attention in case of unexpected changes and events or for supporting the parallel processing of large amounts of data in complex domains. As suggested by multiple-resource theory, one possible solution to this problem is to distribute information across various sensory modalities. A simulator study was conducted to compare the effectiveness of visual, tactile, and redundant visual and tactile cues for indicating unexpected changes in the status of an automated cockpit system. Both tactile conditions resulted in higher detection rates for, and faster response times to, uncommanded mode transitions. Tactile feedback did not interfere with, nor was its effectiveness affected by, the performance of concurrent visual tasks. The observed improvement in task-sharing performance indicates that the introduction of tactile feedback is a promising avenue toward better supporting human-machine communication in event-driven, information-rich domains.
297	connectionism	1998	Steckler, T; Drinkenburg, WHIM; Sahgal, A; Aggleton, JP	Recognition memory in rats - II. Neuroanatomical substrates	PROGRESS IN NEUROBIOLOGY	A discussion of the neuroanatomical systems thought to be of importance for the mediation of recognition memory in the rat warrants consideration of different, but not necessarily exclusive concepts. An important concept is the hypothesis that a dichotomy in the neural systems mediating spatial and non-spatial (item) memory exists in the rat. We have adopted a model of recognition memory suggesting that information about previously encountered items is stored in a dynamic pattern of neural activity and not in a localized representation, These patterns are features of distributed neuronal networks and different networks may process different forms of recognition memory. Two parallel-distributed neuronal networks are proposed in the rat. Network 1 is essential for the processing of non-spatial/item recognition memory processes and incorporates the cortical association areas such as TE1, TE2 and TE3, the rhinal cortices, the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus and prefrontal cortical areas. Network 2 comprises the hippocampus, mamillary bodies, anterior thalamic nuclei and medial prefrontal areas, especially the prelimbic cortex, and is suggested to, be pivotal for the processing of spatial recognition memory. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
298	connectionism	1993	SERESS, L; NITSCH, R; LERANTH, C	CALRETININ IMMUNOREACTIVITY IN THE MONKEY HIPPOCAMPAL-FORMATION .1. LIGHT AND ELECTRON-MICROSCOPIC CHARACTERISTICS AND COLOCALIZATION WITH OTHER CALCIUM-BINDING PROTEINS	NEUROSCIENCE	Calretinin-containing neurons were visualized by immunocytochemistry in the monkey hippocampal formation, subicular complex, and entorhinal cortex. Calretinin-immunoreactivity was present exclusively in non-granule cells of the dentate gyrus and in non-pyramidal cells of Ammon's horn, subiculum and entorhinal cortex. Most frequently, calretinin-positive neurons were found at the hilar border of the dentate granule cell layer and in the stratum radiatum of CA1-3 areas. In the subicular complex, immunoreactive neurons were evenly distributed in all layers, whereas in the entorhinal cortex, they were accumulated in external layers above the lamina dissecans. Distinct bands of calretinin-positive fibers occupied the supragranular zone of the molecular layer in dentate gyrus, the pyramidal cell layer of the CA2 area in Ammon's horn and the upper two layers of presubiculum. The majority of calretinin-immunoreactive neurons were small, bipolar or fusiform neurons with a dendritic tree oriented parallel to the dendrites of principal cells (granule cells in dentate gyrus and pyramidal neurons elsewhere). Dendrites were smooth or sparsely spiny, displaying small spines of conventional type. Co-existence studies showed that these neurons were completely devoid of other calcium-binding proteins, parvalbumin and calbindin. Electron microscopic analysis revealed somata of immunoreactive neurons which contained a large nucleus and a small cytoplasmic rim, which contained only few organelles. The nucleus displayed deep infoldings and intranuclear rods. Input synapses of immunoreactive neurons were rare both on somata and dendrites and large surface areas were frequently apposed by glial processes. This was very prominent in the dentate gyrus and Ammon's horn. Axons of calretinin-positive neurons were thin, arborized in all layers and had small varicosities. Their terminals formed symmetric synaptic contacts mainly with dendrites and less frequently with somata of principal cells. Axon terminals of calretinin-immunoreactive fiber bundles in the supragranular layer, as well as in the pyramidal layer of the CA2 area, formed asymmetric synaptic contacts with dendritic shafts. In addition, they established asymmetric axospinous and axosomatic synaptic contacts with granule cells of the dentate gyrus. In the presubiculum, the calretinin-positive axon bundle included a large number of immunoreactive myelinated axons, as well as axon terminals. The characteristic location and features of synapses suggests that these fibers derive from extra-hippocampal afferents (Nitsch, R. and Leranth C. (1993) Neuroscience 55, 797-812) and not from the calretinin-immunoreactive neurons of the hippocampal formation.
299	connectionism	2009	Engelmann, JB; Damaraju, E; Padmala, S; Pessoa, L	Combined effects of attention and motivation on visual task performance: transient and sustained motivational effects	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	We investigated how the brain integrates motivational and attentional signals by using a neuroimaging paradigm that provided separate estimates for transient cue- and target-related signals, in addition to sustained block-related responses. Participants performed a Posner-type task in which an endogenous cue predicted target location on 70% of trials, while motivation was manipulated by varying magnitude and valence of a cash incentive linked to task performance. Our findings revealed increased detection performance (d') as a function of incentive value. In parallel, brain signals revealed that increases in absolute incentive magnitude led to cue- and target-specifi c response modulations that were independent of sustained state effects across visual cortex, fronto-parietal regions, and subcortical regions. Interestingly, state-like effects of incentive were observed in several of these brain regions, too, suggesting that both transient and sustained fMRI signals may contribute to task performance. For both cue and block periods, the effects of administering incentives were correlated with individual trait measures of reward sensitivity. Taken together, our findings support the notion that motivation improves behavioral performance in a demanding attention task by enhancing evoked responses across a distributed set of anatomical sites, many of which have been previously implicated in attentional processing. However, the effect of motivation was not simply additive as the impact of absolute incentive was greater during invalid than valid trials in several brain regions, possibly because motivation had a larger effect on reorienting than orienting attentional mechanisms at these sites.
300	connectionism	2008	Barbeau, EJ; Taylor, MJ; Regis, J; Marquis, P; Chauvel, P; Liegeois-Chauvel, C	Spatio temporal dynamics of face recognition	CEREBRAL CORTEX	To better understand face recognition, it is necessary to identify not only which brain structures are implicated but also the dynamics of the neuronal activity in these structures. Latencies can then be compared to unravel the temporal dynamics of information processing at the distributed network level. To achieve high spatial and temporal resolution, we used intracerebral recordings in epileptic subjects while they performed a famous/unfamiliar face recognition task. The first components peaked at 110 ms in the fusiform gyrus (FG) and simultaneously in the inferior frontal gyrus, suggesting the early establishment of a large-scale network. This was followed by components peaking at 160 ms in 2 areas along the FG. Important stages of distributed parallel processes ensued at 240 and 360 ms involving up to 6 regions along the ventral visual pathway. The final components peaked at 480 ms in the hippocampus. These stages largely overlapped. Importantly, event-related potentials to famous faces differed from unfamiliar faces and control stimuli in all medial temporal lobe structures. The network was bilateral but more right sided. Thus, recognition of famous faces takes place through the establishment of a complex set of local and distributed processes that interact dynamically and may be an emergent property of these interactions.
301	distributed	1996	Tsoukas, H	The firm as a distributed knowledge system: A constructionist approach	STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT JOURNAL	The organizational problem firms face is the utilization of knowledge which is not, and cannot be, known by a single agent. Even more importantly, no single agent can fully specify in advance what kind of practical knowledge is going to be relevant, when and where. Firms, therefore, are distributed knowledge systems in a strong sense: they are decentered systems, lacking an overseeing 'mind'. The knowledge they need to draw upon is inherently indeterminate and continually emerging; it is not self-contained. Individuals' stock of knowledge consists of (a) role-related normative expectations; (b) dispositions, which have been formed in the course of past socializations; and (c) local knowledge of particular circumstances of time and place. A firm has greater-or-lesser control over normative expectations, but very limited control over the other two. At any point in rime, a firm's knowledge is the indeterminate outcome of individuals attempting to manage the inevitable tensions between normative expectations, dispositions, and local contexts.
302	distributed	1995	BOLAND, RJ; TENKASI, RV	PERSPECTIVE MAKING AND PERSPECTIVE-TAKING IN COMMUNITIES OF KNOWING	ORGANIZATION SCIENCE	Knowledge-intensive firms are composed of multiple communities with specialized expertise, and are often characterized by lateral rather than hierarchical organizational forms. We argue that producing knowledge to create innovative products and processes in such firms requires the ability to make strong perspectives within a community, as well as the ability to take the perspective of another into account. We present models of language, communication and cognition that can assist in the design of electronic communication systems for perspective making and perspective taking. By appreciating how communication is both like a language game played in a local community and also like a transmission of messages through a conduit, and by appreciating how cognition includes a capacity to narrativize our experience as well as a capacity to process information, we identify some guidelines for designing electronic communication systems to support knowledge work. The communication systems we propose emphasize that narratives can help construct strong perspectives within a community of knowing, and that reflecting upon and representing that perspective can create boundary objects which allow for perspective taking between communities. We conclude by describing our vision of an idealized knowledge intensive firm with a strong culture of perspective making and perspective taking, and by identifying some elements of the electronic communication systems we would expect to see in such a firm.
303	distributed	2000	Faraj, S; Sproull, L	Coordinating expertise in software development teams	MANAGEMENT SCIENCE	Like all teams, knowledge teams must acquire and manage critical resources in order to accomplish their work. The most critical resource for knowledge teams is expertise, or specialized skills and knowledge, but the mere presence of expertise on a team is insufficient to produce high-quality work. Expertise must be managed and coordinated in order to leverage its potential. That is, teams must be able to manage their skill and knowledge interdependencies effectively through expertise coordination, which entails knowing where expertise is located, knowing where expertise is needed, and bringing needed expertise to bear. This study investigates the importance of expertise coordination through a cross-sectional investigation of 69 software development teams. The analysis reveals that expertise coordination shows a strong relationship with team performance that remains significant over and above team input characteristics, presence of expertise, and administrative coordination.
304	distributed	2005	Callon, M; Muniesa, F	Economic markets as calculative collective devices	ORGANIZATION STUDIES	How to address empirically the calculative character of markets without dissolving it? In our paper, we propose a theoretical framework that helps to deal with markets without suspending their calculative properties. In the first section, we construct a broad definition of calculation, grounded on the anthropology of science and techniques. In the next sections, we apply this definition to three constitutive elements of markets: economic goods, economic agents and economic exchanges. First, we examine the question of the calculability of goods: in order to be calculated, goods must be calculable. In the following section, we introduce the notion of calculative distributed agencies to understand how these calculable goods are actually calculated. Thirdly, we consider the rules and material devices that organize the encounter between (and aggregation of) individual supplies and demands, i.e. the specific organizations that allow for a calculated exchange and a market output. Those three elements define concrete markets as collective organized devices that calculate compromises on the values of goods. In each, we encounter different versions of our broad definition of calculation, which we illustrate with examples, mainly taken from the fields of financial markets and mass retail.
305	distributed	1998	Madhavan, R; Grover, R	From embedded knowledge to embodied knowledge: New product development as knowledge management	JOURNAL OF MARKETING	Because new product development (NPD) teams are engaged in knowledge creation, NPD management should emphasize cognitive team processes rather than purely social processes. Using the notions of tacit knowledge and distributed cognition as a basis, the authors propose that the T-shaped skills, shared mental models, and NPD routines of team members, as well as the A-shaped skills of the team leader, are key design variables when creating NPD teams. The authors propose that trust in team orientation, trust in technical competence, information redundancy, and rich personal interaction are important process variables for the effective and efficient creation of new knowledge.
306	distributed	2004	Spillane, JP; Halverson, R; Diamond, JB	Towards a theory of leadership practice: a distributed perspective	JOURNAL OF CURRICULUM STUDIES	School-level conditions and school leadership, in particular, are key issues in efforts to change instruction. While new organizational structures and new leadership roles matter to instructional innovation, what seems most critical is how leadership practice is undertaken. Yet, the practice of school leadership has received limited attention in the research literature. Building on activity theory and theories of distributed cognition, this paper develops a distributed perspective on school leadership as a frame for studying leadership practice, arguing that leadership practice is constituted in the interaction of school leaders, followers, and the situation.
307	distributed	2005	Hutchins, E	Material anchors for conceptual blends	JOURNAL OF PRAGMATICS	Reasoning processes require stable representations of constraints. There are two principal ways to achieve stability in conceptual models. First, the conceptual models that anthropologists call cultural models achieve representational stability via a combination of intrapersonal and interpersonal processes. Second, the association of conceptual structure with material structure can stabilize conceptual representations. This is an old and pervasive cognitive strategy. Conceptual blending theory provides a useful framework for considering the joint contributions and mutual constraints of mental and material structure. Projecting material structure into a blended space can stabilize the conceptual blend. I call an input space from which material structure is projected into a blend a 'material anchor' for the blend. The term material anchor is meant to emphasize the stabilizing role of the material structure. In this article, I will present and discuss a number of examples of materially anchored blends, which depend to different degrees on material structure. Materially anchored blends vary on a number of complexly related dimensions, including the extent to which the blend relies on the presence of material structure in the perceptual field, the complexity of the material structure, and whether the material structure was designed to support the blend or is used opportunistically. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
308	distributed	1994	BOLAND, RJ; TENKASI, RV; TEENI, D	DESIGNING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY TO SUPPORT DISTRIBUTED COGNITION	ORGANIZATION SCIENCE	Cognition in organizations is a distributed  phenomenon, in which individual members of an organization reflect upon their experience, make plans, or take action. Organizational learning or organizational cognition are familiar terms, but it is only the individual persons in an organization who create interpretations and test understandings, as they think and learn in their organizational setting. Coordinated outcomes emerge in organizations when individuals think and act in ways that take others in the organization and their interdependencies into account. We argue that much of the effort to design information technology to support cognition in organizations has not addressed its distributed quality. Such systems have tended to focus either on the individual as an isolated decision maker, or on the group as a producer of a decision or policy statement in common. In distributed cognition, by contrast, the group is a set of autonomous agents who act independently yet recognize that they have interdependencies. To guide the design of information technology, we propose that distributed cognition be viewed as a hermeneutic process of inquiry, emphasizing the importance of individual interpretation and group dialogue. Hermeneutics provides a theory of the interpretive process through which an individual gives meaning to organizational experience. Inquiry systems provide a theory of how a community of inquirers build and test knowledge representations through dialogue. Together, hermeneutics and inquiry systems are used to propose a set of design principles to guide the development of information technology that supports distributed cognition. The design principles we describe in the paper are ownership, easy travel, multiplicity, indeterminacy, emergence and mixed forms. Applications of information technology which embody these design principles would support distributed cognition by assisting individuals in making interpretations of their situation, reflecting on them, and engaging in dialogue about them with others. The objective is to refine their own understanding of the situation and better appreciate the understandings of others, enabling them to better take their inter-dependencies into account in their individual actions. A project to develop such a system is discussed, along with some implications for research.
309	distributed	1991	HUTCHINS, E	THE SOCIAL-ORGANIZATION OF DISTRIBUTED COGNITION	PERSPECTIVES ON SOCIALLY SHARED COGNITION	0
310	distributed	2002	Patel, VL; Kaufman, DR; Arocha, JF	Emerging paradigms of cognition in medical decision-making	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	The limitations of the classical or traditional paradigm of decision research are increasingly apparent, even though there has been a substantial body of empirical research on medical decision-making over the past 40 years. As decision-support technology continues to proliferate in medical settings, it is imperative that "basic science" decision research develop a broader-based and more valid foundation for the study of medical decision-making as it occurs in the natural setting. This paper critically reviews both traditional and recent approaches to medical decision making, considering the integration of problem-solving and decision-making research paradigms, the role of conceptual knowledge in decision-making, and the emerging paradigm of naturalistic decision-making. We also provide an examination of technology-mediated decision-making. Expanding the scope of decision research will better enable us to understand optimal decision processes, suitable coping mechanisms under suboptimal conditions, the development of expertise in decision-making, and ways in which decision-support technology can successfully mediate decision processes. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.
311	distributed	2002	Barab, SA; Plucker, JA	Smart people or smart contexts? Cognition, ability, and talent development in an age of situated approaches to knowing and learning	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGIST	Intelligence, expertise, ability and talent, as these terms have traditionally been used in education and psychology, are socially agreed upon labels that minimize the dynamic, evolving, and contextual nature of individual-environment relations. These hypothesized constructs can instead be described as functional relations distributed across whole persons and particular contexts through which individuals appear knowledgeably skillful. The purpose of this article is to support a concept of ability and talent development that is theoretically grounded in 5 distinct, yet interrelated, notions: ecological psychology, situated cognition, distributed cognition, activity theory, and legitimate peripheral participation. Although talent may be reserved by some to describe individuals possessing exceptional ability and ability may be described as an internal trait, in our description neither ability nor talent are possessed. Instead, they are treated as equivalent terms that can be used to describe functional transactions that are situated across person-in-situation. Further, and more important, by arguing that ability is part of the individual-environment transaction, we take the potential to appear talented out of the hands (or heads) of the few and instead treat it as an opportunity that is available to all although it may be actualized more frequently by some.
312	distributed	2007	Ancker, JS; Kaufman, D	Rethinking health numeracy: A multidisciplinary literature review	JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL INFORMATICS ASSOCIATION	The purpose of this review is to organize various published conceptions of health numeracy and to discuss how health numeracy contributes to the productive use of quantitative information for health. We define health numeracy as the individual-level skills needed to understand and use quantitative health information, including basic computation skills, ability to use information in documents and non-text formats such as graphs, and ability to communicate orally. We also identify two other factors affecting whether a consumer can use quantitative health information: design of documents and other information artifacts, and health-care providers' communication skills. We draw upon the distributed cognition perspective to argue that essential ingredients for the productive use of quantitative health information include not only health numeracy but also good provider communication skills, as well as documents and devices that are designed to enhance comprehension and cognition.
313	distributed	2009	Grundgeiger, T; Sanderson, P	Interruptions in healthcare: Theoretical views	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MEDICAL INFORMATICS	Background: Researchers in healthcare have begun to investigate interruptions extensively, given evidence for the adverse effects of work interruptions in other domains and given the highly interruptive hospital environment. In this paper, we reviewed literature on interruptions in critical care and medication dispensing settings in search of evidence for a relationship between interruptions and adverse events. Methods: The literature search included the databases MEDLINE, CINAHL+ Pre CINHAL, Health Sources: Nursing Academic Edition, EMBASE, PsycINFO, ISI Web of Science and Ergonomics Abstracts. The paper titles and abstracts were subsequently reviewed. After the initial search, we reviewed paper titles and abstracts to define the subset for review. Results: We currently lack evidence in healthcare of the extent to which interruptions lead to adverse effects. The lack of evidence may be due to the descriptive rather than causal nature of most studies, the lack of theory motivating investigations of the relationship, the fact that healthcare is a complex and varied domain, and inadequate conceptualizations of accident aetiology. We identify two recent accident theories in which the relationship between activity and medical errors is complex, indicating that even when it is sought, causal evidence is hard to find. Discussion: Future research on interruptions in healthcare settings should focus on the following. First, prospective memory research and distributed cognition can provide a theoretical background for understanding the impact of interruptions and so could provide guidance for future empirical research on interruptions and the planning of actions in healthcare. Second, studying how interruptions are successfully rather than unsuccessfully overcome may better help us understand their effects. Third, because interruptions almost always have positive and adverse effects, more appropriate dependent variables could be chosen. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
314	distributed	2008	Omicini, A; Ricci, A; Viroli, M	Artifacts in the A&A meta-model for multi-agent systems	AUTONOMOUS AGENTS AND MULTI-AGENT SYSTEMS	In this article we focus on the notion of artifact for agents in multi-agent systems (MAS) as a basis for a new meta-model promoting the modelling and engineering of agent societies and MAS environment as first-class entities. Its conceptual foundations lay upon theories and results coming from computational sciences as well as from organisational and cognitive sciences, psychology, computer supported cooperative work (CSCW), anthropology and ethology. In the resulting agents & artifacts (A&A) meta-model, agents are the (pro-)active entities in charge of the goals/tasks that altogether build up the whole MAS behaviour, whereas artifacts are the reactive entities providing the services and functions that make individual agents work together in a MAS, and that shape agent environment according to the MAS needs. After presenting the scientific background, we define the notions of artifact in the A&A meta-model, discuss how it affects the notion of intelligence in MAS, and show its application to a number of agent-related research fields.
315	distributed	2005	Fischer, G; Giaccardi, E; Eden, H; Sugimoto, M; Ye, YW	Beyond binary choices: Integrating individual and social creativity	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	The power of the unaided individual mind is highly overrated. Although society often thinks of creative individuals as working in isolation, intelligence and creativity result in large part from interaction and collaboration with other individuals. Much human creativity is social, arising from activities that take place in a context in which interaction with other People and the artifacts that embody collective knowledge are essential contributors. This paper examines: (1) how individual and social creativity can be integrated by means of proper collaboration models and tools supporting distributed cognitiori; (2) how the creation of shareable externalizations ("boundary objects") and the adoption of evolutionary process models in the construction of meta-design environments can enhance creativity and support spontaneous design activities ("unselfconscious cultures of design"); and (3) how a new design competence is emerging-one that requires passage from individual creative actions to synergetic activities, from the reflective practitioner to reflective communities and from given tasks to personally meaningful activities. The paper offers examples in the context of collaborative design and art practice, including urban planning, interactive art and open source. In the effort to draw a viable path "beyond binary choices", the paper points out some major challenges for the next generation of socio-technical environments to further increase the integration of individual and social creativity. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
316	distributed	2004	Love, N	Cognition and the language myth	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	There is arguably a parallel between recent ideas within cognitive science about the distributed mind and the development within linguistics known as integrationism, turning on similarities between the critique offered by the former of the 'classical' view of mind and by the latter of the 'classical' view of language. However, at the heart of the integrationist attack on the classical view of language is rejection of the idea that natural languages are codes. This idea appears to be taken for granted by certain cognitive scientists as the basis for explaining not only how language is mentally apprehended by the individual, but also how it facilitates,second-order cognition'. It is suggested that the language-as-code idea, although prima facie endowed with the attractiveness of common sense, is untenable, and should not figure, at least in the role usually assigned to it, in any inquiry into either language or human cognition in general. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
317	distributed	2010	Hutchins, E	Cognitive Ecology	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Cognitive ecology is the study of cognitive phenomena in context. In particular, it points to the web of mutual dependence among the elements of a cognitive ecosystem. At least three fields were taking a deeply ecological approach to cognition 30 years ago: Gibson's ecological psychology, Bateson's ecology of mind, and Soviet cultural-historical activity theory. The ideas developed in those projects have now found a place in modern views of embodied, situated, distributed cognition. As cognitive theory continues to shift from units of analysis defined by inherent properties of the elements to units defined in terms of dynamic patterns of correlation across elements, the study of cognitive ecosystems will become an increasingly important part of cognitive science.
318	distributed	2010	Sittig, DF; Singh, H	A new sociotechnical model for studying health information technology in complex adaptive healthcare systems	QUALITY & SAFETY IN HEALTH CARE	Background Conceptual models have been developed to address challenges inherent in studying health information technology (HIT). Method This manuscript introduces an eight-dimensional model specifically designed to address the sociotechnical challenges involved in design, development, implementation, use and evaluation of HIT within complex adaptive healthcare systems. Discussion The eight dimensions are not independent, sequential or hierarchical, but rather are interdependent and inter-related concepts similar to compositions of other complex adaptive systems. Hardware and software computing infrastructure refers to equipment and software used to power, support and operate clinical applications and devices. Clinical content refers to textual or numeric data and images that constitute the 'language' of clinical applications. The human-computer interface includes all aspects of the computer that users can see, touch or hear as they interact with it. People refers to everyone who interacts in some way with the system, from developer to end user, including potential patient-users. Workflow and communication are the processes or steps involved in ensuring that patient care tasks are carried out effectively. Two additional dimensions of the model are internal organisational features (eg, policies, procedures and culture) and external rules and regulations, both of which may facilitate or constrain many aspects of the preceding dimensions. The final dimension is measurement and monitoring, which refers to the process of measuring and evaluating both intended and unintended consequences of HIT implementation and use. We illustrate how our model has been successfully applied in real-world complex adaptive settings to understand and improve HIT applications at various stages of development and implementation.
319	distributed	1998	King, A	Transactive peer tutoring: Distributing cognition and metacognition	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	"ASK to THINK-TEL WHY(R(C)("3)) is an inquiry-based model of mutual peer tutoring in which tutoring partners mediate each others' learning in a transactive manner This tutorial model is designed as a "person-plus" cognitive partnership that supports the distribution of cognition and metacognition in order to promote complex; higher-level learning. This article focuses on what is being distributed during "ASK to THINK-TEL WHY(R)(C)" (i.e., the cognitive tasks of questioning, explaining, thinking, problem solving, as well as monitoring and regulation of learning) and how these cognitions are distributed across the tutoring pair and various aspects of their learning environment. Results of research on the effectiveness of using this model in classroom contexts has shown that the model promotes students' construction of new knowledge.
320	distributed	2005	Stahl, G	Group cognition in computer-assisted collaborative learning	JOURNAL OF COMPUTER ASSISTED LEARNING	Recent research on instructional technology has focused increasingly on the potential of computer support to promote collaborative learning. Socio-cultural theories have been imported from cognate fields to suggest that cognition and learning take place at the level of groups and communities as well as individuals. Various positions on this issue have been proposed and a number of theoretical perspectives have been recommended. In particular, the concept of common ground has been developed to explain how meanings and understandings can be shared by multiple individuals. This paper takes a critical look at the concept of shared meaning as it is generally used and proposes an empirical study of how group cognition is constituted in practice.
321	distributed	2005	Xiao, Y	Artifacts and collaborative work in healthcare: methodological, theoretical, and technological implications of the tangible	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	Although modeled as knowledge work with emphasis on data flow and decision making, healthcare is delivered in the context of a highly structured physical environment, with much effort and emphasis placed on physical and spatial arrangement and re-arrangement of workers, patients, and materials. The tangible aspects of highly collaborative healthcare work have profound implications for research and development of information and communication technology (ICT) despite the tendency to model work as flow of abstract data items. This article reviews field studies in healthcare and other domains on the role of artifacts in collaborative work and draws implications in three areas: methodological, theoretical, and technological. In regard to methodologies, assessment of new ICT and development of user requirements should take into account how artifacts are used and exploited to facilitate collaborative work. In regard to theories, the framework of distributed cognition provides a starting point for modeling the contribution and exploitation of physical artifacts in supporting collaborative work. In regard to technology, design and deployment of new technology should support the functions provided by physical artifacts replaced or disrupted by new technology, and profitable ways for new technology to support collaborative work by embedding ICT into existing infrastructure of physical artifacts. (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
322	distributed	2008	Kittur, A; Kraut, RE	Harnessing the Wisdom of Crowds in Wikipedia: Quality Through Coordination	CSCW: 2008 ACM CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER SUPPORTED COOPERATIVE WORK, CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS	Wikipedia's success is often attributed to the large numbers of contributors who improve the accuracy, completeness and clarity of articles while reducing bias. However, because of the coordination needed to write an article collaboratively, adding contributors is costly. We examined how the number of editors in Wikipedia and the coordination methods they use affect article quality. We distinguish between explicit coordination, in which editors plan the article through communication, and implicit coordination, in which a subset of editors structure the work by doing the majority of it. Adding more editors to an article improved article quality only when they used appropriate coordination techniques and was harmful when they did not. Implicit coordination through concentrating the work was more helpful when many editors contributed, but explicit coordination through communication was not. Both types of coordination improved quality more when an article was in a formative stage. These results demonstrate the critical importance of coordination in effectively harnessing the "wisdom of the crowd" in online production environments.
323	distributed	2000	Wright, PC; Fields, RE; Harrison, MD	Analyzing human-computer interaction as distributed cognition: The resources model	HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	In this article we present a new approach to interaction modeling based on the concept of information resources. The approach is inspired by recent distributed cognition (DC) literature but develops a model that applies specifically to human-computer interaction (HCI) modeling. Of course, there are many approaches to modeling HCI, and the motivation of this article is not to offer yet another approach. Rather, our motivation is that the recent developments in DC are so obviously relevant to HCI modeling and design, yet the ideas have lacked visibility in the HCI community. By providing a model whose concepts are rooted in DC concepts, we hope to achieve this visibility. DC research identifies resources for action as central to the interaction between people and technologies, but it stops short of providing a definition of such resources at a level that could be used to analyze interaction. The resources model described in this article defines a limited number of resource types as abstract information structures that can be used to analyze interaction. We demonstrate how these abstract types can be represented differently in an interface. The resources model uses the concept of interaction strategy to describe the way in which different configurations of resources can differently shape users' actions. These 2 components of the resources model (information structures and interaction strategies), through the process of coordination and integration, provide a link among devices, representations, and actions that is not well articulated in the DC literature.
324	distributed	2006	Kim, Y; Baylor, AL	A social-cognitive framework for pedagogical agents as learning companions	ETR&D-EDUCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT	Teaching and learning are highly social activities. Seminal psychologists such as Vygotsky, Piaget, and Bandura have theorized that social interaction is a key mechanism in the process of learning and development. In particular, the benefits of peer interaction for learning and motivation in classrooms have been broadly demonstrated through empirical studies. Hence, it would be valuable if computer-based environments could support a mechanism for a peer interaction. Though no claim of peer equivalence is made, pedagogical agents as learning companions (PALs)-animated digital characters functioning to simulate human-peer-like interaction-might provide an opportunity to simulate such social interaction in computer-based learning. In this article we ground the instructional potential of PALs in several social-cognitive theories, including distributed cognition, social interaction, and Bandura's social-cognitive theory. We discuss how specific concepts of the theories might support various instructional functions of PALs, acknowledging concepts that PALs cannot address. Based on the theoretical perspectives, we suggest key constituents for designing PALs that in human-peer interactions have proven significant. Finally, we review the current status of PAL research with respect to these constituents and suggest where further empirical research is necessary.
325	distributed	2007	Barrett, L; Henzi, P; Rendall, D	Social brains, simple minds: does social complexity really require cognitive complexity?	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The social brain hypothesis is a well-accepted and well-supported evolutionary theory of enlarged brain size in the non-human primates. Nevertheless, it tends to emphasize an anthropocentric view of social life and cognition. This often leads to confusion between ultimate and proximate mechanisms, and an over-reliance on a Cartesian, narratively structured view of the mind and social life, which in turn lead to views of social complexity that are congenial to our views of ourselves, rather than necessarily representative of primate social worlds. In this paper, we argue for greater attention to embodied and distributed theories of cognition, which get us away from current fixations on 'theory of mind' and other high-level anthropocentric constructions, and allow for the generation of testable hypotheses that combine neurobiology, psychology and behaviour in a mutually reinforcing manner.
326	distributed	2003	Horsky, J; Kaufman, DR; Oppenheim, MI; Patel, VL	A framework for analyzing the cognitive complexity of computer-assisted clinical ordering	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	Computer-assisted provider order entry is a technology that is designed to expedite medical ordering and to reduce the frequency of preventable errors. This paper presents a multifaceted cognitive methodology for the characterization of cognitive demands of a medical information system. Our investigation was informed by the distributed resources (DR) model, a novel approach designed to describe the dimensions of user interfaces that introduce unnecessary cognitive complexity. This method evaluates the relative distribution of external (system) and internal (user) representations embodied in system interaction. We conducted an expert walkthrough evaluation of a commercial order entry system, followed by a simulated clinical ordering task performed by seven clinicians. The DR model was employed to explain variation in user performance and to characterize the relationship of resource distribution and ordering errors. The analysis revealed that the configuration of resources in this ordering application placed unnecessarily heavy cognitive demands on the user, especially on those who lacked a robust conceptual model of the system. The resources model also provided some insight into clinicians' interactive strategies and patterns of associated errors. Implications for user training and interface design based on the principles of human-computer interaction in the medical domain are discussed. (C) 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
327	distributed	2010	Sutton, J; Harris, CB; Keil, PG; Barnier, AJ	The psychology of memory, extended cognition, and socially distributed remembering	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	This paper introduces a new, expanded range of relevant cognitive psychological research on collaborative recall and social memory to the philosophical debate on extended and distributed cognition. We start by examining the case for extended cognition based on the complementarity of inner and outer resources, by which neural, bodily, social, and environmental resources with disparate but complementary properties are integrated into hybrid cognitive systems, transforming or augmenting the nature of remembering or decision-making. Adams and Aizawa, noting this distinctive complementarity argument, say that they agree with it completely: but they describe it as "a non-revolutionary approach" which leaves "the cognitive psychology of memory as the study of processes that take place, essentially without exception, within nervous systems." In response, we carve out, on distinct conceptual and empirical grounds, a rich middle ground between internalist forms of cognitivism and radical anti-cognitivism. Drawing both on extended cognition literature and on Sterelny's account of the "scaffolded mind" (this issue), we develop a multidimensional framework for understanding varying relations between agents and external resources, both technological and social. On this basis we argue that, independent of any more "revolutionary" metaphysical claims about the partial constitution of cognitive processes by external resources, a thesis of scaffolded or distributed cognition can substantially influence or transform explanatory practice in cognitive science. Critics also cite various empirical results as evidence against the idea that remembering can extend beyond skull and skin. We respond with a more principled, representative survey of the scientific psychology of memory, focussing in particular on robust recent empirical traditions for the study of collaborative recall and transactive social memory. We describe our own empirical research on socially distributed remembering, aimed at identifying conditions for mnemonic emergence in collaborative groups. Philosophical debates about extended, embedded, and distributed cognition can thus make richer, mutually beneficial contact with independently motivated research programs in the cognitive psychology of memory.
328	distributed	2005	Barrett, L; Henzi, P	The social nature of primate cognition	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The hypothesis that the enlarged brain size of the primates was selected for by social, rather than purely ecological, factors has been strongly influential in studies of primate cognition and behaviour over the past two decades. However, the Machiavellian intelligence hypothesis, also known as the social brain hypothesis, tends to emphasize certain traits and behaviours, like exploitation and deception, at the expense of others, such as tolerance and behavioural coordination, and therefore presents only one view of how social life may shape cognition. This review outlines work from other relevant disciplines, including evolutionary economics, cognitive science and neurophysiology, to illustrate how these can be used to build a more general theoretical framework, incorporating notions of embodied and distributed cognition, in which to situate questions concerning the evolution of primate social cognition.
329	distributed	2010	Fioratou, E; Flin, R; Glavin, R; Patey, R	Beyond monitoring: distributed situation awareness in anaesthesia	BRITISH JOURNAL OF ANAESTHESIA	Situation awareness (SA) is one of the essential non-technical skills for effective and safe practice in high-risk industries, such as healthcare; yet, there is limited research of its significance in anaesthetic practice. In this paper, we review this scant research that focuses on SA as patient monitoring alone and advocate for a more comprehensive view of SA in anaesthetic practice and training that extends beyond monitoring, namely, a distributed cognition approach. We identify further factors influencing anaesthetists' SA and provide a case that resulted in an anaesthetic fatality to illustrate the application of an alternative view of SA in anaesthesia. Distributed SA in anaesthetic practice provides the foundation for further research that may in turn influence the teaching and assessment of this important non-technical skill.
330	distributed	2005	Thrift, N	From born to made: technology, biology and space	TRANSACTIONS OF THE INSTITUTE OF BRITISH GEOGRAPHERS	This paper is concerned with forging new links between geography and biology and technology by delivering a set of shocks to the meaning of accepted categories like 'nature' and 'technology'. To achieve these dual aims, the paper will double click on the icon 'intelligence'. 'Intelligence' prioritizes the active shaping of environments. it thereby allows space for the spaces of the world to themselves become a part of intelligibility and intellect as elements of distributed cognition and, as will become clear, pre-cognition. The paper argues that such a conception of sentience can provide a series of new perspectives, as well as a pressing ethical challenge.
331	distributed	2008	Patel, VL; Zhang, J; Yoskowitz, NA; Green, R; Sayan, OR	Translational cognition for decision support in critical care environments: A review	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	The dynamic and distributed work environment in critical care requires a high level of collaboration among clinical team members and a sophisticated task coordination system to deliver safe, timely and effective care. A complex cognitive system underlies the decision-making process in such cooperative workplaces. This methodological review paper addresses the issues of translating cognitive research to clinical practice with a specific focus on decision-making in critical care, and the role of information and communication technology to aid in such decisions. Examples are drawn from studies of critical care in our own research laboratories. Critical care, in this paper, includes both intensive (inpatient) and emergency (outpatient) care. We define translational cognition as the research on basic and applied cognitive issues that contribute to our understanding of how information is stored, retrieved and used for problem-solving and decision-making. The methods and findings are discussed in the context of constraints on decision-making in real-world complex environments and implications for supporting the design and evaluation of decision support tools for critical care health providers. (c) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
332	distributed	2008	Barnier, AJ; Sutton, J; Harris, CB; Wilson, RA	A conceptual and empirical framework for the social distribution of cognition: The case of memory	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	In this paper, we aim to show that the framework of embedded, distributed, or extended cognition offers new perspectives on social cognition by applying it to one specific domain: the psychology of memory. In making our case, first we specify some key social dimensions of cognitive distribution and some basic distinctions between memory cases, and then describe stronger and weaker versions of distributed remembering in the general distributed cognition framework. Next, we examine studies of social influences on memory in cognitive psychology, and identify the valuable concepts and methods to be extended and embedded in our framework; we focus in particular on three related paradigms: transactive memory, collaborative recall, and social contagion. Finally, we sketch our own early studies of individual and group memory developed within our framework of distributed cognition, on social contagion of autobiographical memories, collaborative flashbulb memories, and memories of high school at a high school reunion. We see two reciprocal benefits of this conceptual and empirical framework to social memory phenomena: that ideas about distributed cognition can be honed against and tested with the help of sophisticated methods in the social-cognitive psychology of memory; and conversely, that a range of social memory phenomena that are as yet poorly understood can be approached afresh with theoretically motivated extensions of existing empirical paradigms. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
333	distributed	1994	ROGERS, Y; ELLIS, J	DISTRIBUTED COGNITION - AN ALTERNATIVE FRAMEWORK FOR ANALYZING AND EXPLAINING COLLABORATIVE WORKING	JOURNAL OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY	This paper examines the theoretical and practical problems that arise from attempts to develop formal characterizations and explanations of many work activities, in particular, collaborative activities. We argue that even seemingly discrete individual activities occur in, and frequently draw upon a complex network of factors: individual, social and organizational. Similarly, organizational and social constraints and practices impact upon individual cognitive processes and the realization of these in specific tasks. Any adequate characterization of work activities therefore requires the analysis and synthesis of information from these traditionally separate sources. We argue that existing frameworks, emanating separately from the respective disciplines (cognitive, social and organizational) do not present an adequate means of studying the dynamics of collaborative activity in situ. An alternative framework, advocated in this paper, is distributed cognition. Its theoretical basis is outlined together with examples of applied studies of computer-mediated work activities in different organizational settings.
334	distributed	2008	Keehner, M; Hegarty, M; Cohen, C; Khooshabeh, P; Montello, DR	Spatial Reasoning With External Visualizations: What Matters Is What You See, Not Whether You Interact	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Three experiments examined the effects of interactive visualizations and spatial abilities on a task requiring participants to infer and draw cross sections of a three-dimensional (3D) object. The experiments manipulated whether participants could interactively control a virtual 3D visualization of the object while performing the task, and compared participants who were allowed interactive control of the visualization to those who were not allowed control. In Experiment 1, interactivity produced better performance than passive viewing, but the advantage of interactivity disappeared in Experiment 2 when visual input for the two conditions in a yoked design was equalized. In Experiments 2 and 3, differences in how interactive participants manipulated the visualization were large and related to performance. In Experiment 3, non-interactive participants who watched optimal movements of the display performed as well as interactive participants who manipulated the visualization effectively and better than interactive participants who manipulated the visualization ineffectively. Spatial ability made an independent contribution to performance on the spatial reasoning task, but did not predict patterns of interactive behavior. These experiments indicate that providing participants with active control of a computer visualization does not necessarily enhance task performance, whereas seeing the most task-relevant information does, and this is true regardless of whether the task-relevant information is obtained actively or passively.
335	distributed	2010	Grundgeiger, T; Sanderson, P; MacDougall, HG; Venkatesh, B	Interruption Management in the Intensive Care Unit: Predicting Resumption Times and Assessing Distributed Support	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-APPLIED	Interruptions are frequent in many work domains. Researchers in health care have started to study interruptions extensively, but their studies usually do not use a theoretically guided approach. Conversely, researchers conducting theoretically rich laboratory studies on interruptions have not usually investigated how effectively their findings account for humans working in complex systems such as intensive care units. In the current study, we use the memory for goals theory and prospective memory theory to investigate which properties of an interruption influence how long it takes nurses to resume interrupted critical care tasks. We collected data with a mobile eye tracker in an intensive care unit and developed multiple regression models to predict resumption times. In 55.8% of all interruptions there was a finite and therefore analyzable-resumption lag. For these cases, the main regression model explained 30.9% (adjusted R(2)) of the variance. Longer interruptions (beta = .36, p < .001) and changes in physical location due to interruptions (beta = .40, p < .001) lengthened the resumption lag. We also calculated regression models on subsets of the data to investigate the generality of the above findings across different situations. In a further 37.6% of all interruptions, nurses used behavioral strategies that greatly diminished or eliminated individual prospective memory demands caused by interruptions, resulting in no analyzable resumption lag. We introduce a descriptive model that accounts for how nurses' behaviors affect the cognitive demand of resuming an interrupted task. Finally, we discuss how the disruptive effects of interruptions in the intensive care unit could be diminished or prevented.
336	distributed	2007	Hazlehurst, B; McMullen, CK; Gorman, PN	Distributed cognition in the heart room: How situation awareness arises from coordinated communications during cardiac surgery	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	To help ensure successful outcomes of open-heart surgery, surgeon and perfusionist must coordinate their activities during management of cardioplegia. This research aims to understand the basis for this coordination. We employed the framework of distributed cognition and the methodology of cognitive ethnography to describe how cognitive resources are configured and utilized to accomplish successful cardioplegia management. Analysis identified six types of surgeon perfusionist verbal exchange which collectively enable robust system performance through (a) making the current situation clear and mutually understood; (b) making goals and envisioned future situations clear and thereby anticipated; and (c) expanding upon the activity system's knowledge base through discovery and sharing of experience. We argue for the "activity system" as the appropriate unit of analysis, and distributed cognition as a powerful theoretical framework for studying the socio-technical work of health care. (c) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
337	distributed	1998	Hewitt, J; Scardamalia, M	Design principles for distributed knowledge building processes	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	In this paper we explore various interpretations of the term "distributed cognition," then turn our attention to communities grounded in the practice of collaborative knowledge building. We discuss CSILE (Computer-Supported Intentional Learning Environments), a technology designed to support contributions to a communal database. Shared responsibility for this community resource extends to aspects of school practice typically handled exclusively by teachers, and engagement in improving and connecting the contents of the database makes the process of knowledge building self-sustaining. We discuss knowledge building communities involving students and teachers, and end with discussion of design principles for distributed knowledge building processes.
338	distributed	2011	Durning, SJ; Artino, AR	Situativity theory: A perspective on how participants and the environment can interact: AMEE Guide no. 52	MEDICAL TEACHER	Situativity theory refers to theoretical frameworks which argue that knowledge, thinking, and learning are situated (or located) in experience. The importance of context to these theories is paramount, including the unique contribution of the environment to knowledge, thinking, and learning; indeed, they argue that knowledge, thinking, and learning cannot be separated from (they are dependent upon) context. Situativity theory includes situated cognition, situated learning, ecological psychology, and distributed cognition. In this Guide, we first outline key tenets of situativity theory and then compare situativity theory to information processing theory; we suspect that the reader may be quite familiar with the latter, which has prevailed in medical education research. Contrasting situativity theory with information processing theory also serves to highlight some unique potential contributions of situativity theory to work in medical education. Further, we discuss each of these situativity theories and then relate the theories to the clinical context. Examples and illustrations for each of the theories are used throughout. We will conclude with some potential considerations for future exploration. Some implications of situativity theory include: a new way of approaching knowledge and how experience and the environment impact knowledge, thinking, and learning; recognizing that the situativity framework can be a useful tool to ""diagnose"" the teaching or clinical event; the notion that increasing individual responsibility and participation in a community (i.e., increasing ""belonging"") is essential to learning; understanding that the teaching and clinical environment can be complex (i.e., non-linear and multi-level); recognizing that explicit attention to how participants in a group interact with each other (not only with the teacher) and how the associated learning artifacts, such as computers, can meaningfully impact learning.</.
339	distributed	2009	Sawyer, RK; DeZutter, S	Distributed Creativity: How Collective Creations Emerge From Collaboration	PSYCHOLOGY OF AESTHETICS CREATIVITY AND THE ARTS	Creativity is often considered to be a mental process that occurs within a person's head. In this article, we analyze a group creative process: One that generates a creative product, but one in which no single participants contribution determines the result. We analyze a series of 5 theater performances that were improvisationally developed in rehearsal by a theater group; over the course of these 5 performances, a collaborative creation emerged from the improvised dialogues of the group. We argue that in cases of creativity such as this one, it is inaccurate to describe creativity as a purely mental process; rather, this case represents a nonindividualistic creative process that we refer to as distributed creativity. We chose this term by analogy with studies of distributed cognition, which are well established in cognitive science, but have not yet had a substantial impact on creativity research. Our study demonstrates a methodology that can be used to study distributed creative processes, provides a theoretical framework to explain these processes, and contributes to our understanding of how collaboration contributes to creativity.
340	distributed	2006	Cohen, T; Blatter, B; Almeida, C; Shortliffe, E; Patel, V	A cognitive blueprint of collaboration in context: Distributed cognition in the psychiatric emergency department	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN MEDICINE	Objective: The complex cognitive processes that underlie human performance in 'messy' contexts such as critical care medicine suggest a need for a cognitive model with broad scope to support the understanding of error in such domains. The objective of this research is to characterize the cognition that underlies patient care in the domain of emergency psychiatry in order to enhance the understanding of error in this context. Methods and materials: The theoretical framework of distributed cognition has been used to study collaborative decision-making in a number of similarly complex environments such as airline cockpits and air traffic control towers. These environments share certain characteristics with the critical care domain: the work is collaborative in nature, it is supported by artifacts that can be studied directly, and the consequences of error are dire. However, the nature of the work in this domain and the artifacts used to support it are unique. The application of the theoretical constructs of distributed cognition to this context is necessary in order to characterize the collective thinking that underlies critical care. Our research uses a combination of ethnographic and interview data to derive a distributed cognitive model of the psychiatric emergency department (PED), a high volume clinical unit dealing exclusively with the acute phases of psychiatric crises. The dynamics of workflow within the department are complex: several types of clinician collaborate by forming temporary multidisciplinary teams that attach to and manage particular patients. The component members of these teams change over time. Results: Using the theoretical framework of distributed cognition, we interpreted the collected data to derive a cognitive model of the distribution of work and information flow in the PED. This modeling process has revealed several latent flaws in the system related to the underlying distribution of cognition across teams, time, space and artifacts. Conclusions: The characterization of this distribution has enhanced our understanding of the cognitive dynamics underlying error in this environment, and will serve to guide future research on error management in the ED and inform the development of context-appropriate error- management systems. (C) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
341	distributed	2010	Theiner, G; Allen, C; Goldstone, RL	Recognizing group cognition	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	In this paper, we approach the idea of group cognition from the perspective of the "extended mind" thesis, as a special case of the more general claim that systems larger than the individual human, but containing that human, are capable of cognition (Clark, 2008; Clark & Chalmers, 1998). Instead of deliberating about "the mark of the cognitive" (Adams & Aizawa, 2008), our discussion of group cognition is tied to particular cognitive capacities. We review recent studies of group problem solving and group memory which reveal that specific cognitive capacities that are commonly ascribed to individuals are also aptly ascribed at the level of groups. These case studies show how dense interactions among people within a group lead to both similarity-inducing and differentiating dynamics that affect the group's ability to solve problems. This supports our claim that groups have organization-dependent cognitive capacities that go beyond the simple aggregation of the cognitive capacities of individuals. Group cognition is thus an emergent phenomenon in the sense of Wimsatt (1986). We further argue that anybody who rejects our strategy for showing that cognitive properties can be instantiated at multiple levels in the organizational hierarchy on a priori grounds is a "demergentist," and thus incurs the burden of proof for explaining why cognitive properties are "stuck" at a certain level of organizational structure. Finally, we show that our analysis of group cognition escapes the "coupling-constitution" charge that has been leveled against the extended mind thesis (Adams & Aizawa, 2008). (C) 2010 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
342	distributed	2009	Moussaid, M; Garnier, S; Theraulaz, G; Helbing, D	Collective Information Processing and Pattern Formation in Swarms, Flocks, and Crowds	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The spontaneous organization of collective activities in animal groups and societies has attracted a considerable amount of attention over the last decade. This kind of coordination often permits group-living species to achieve collective tasks that are far beyond single individuals' capabilities. In particular, a key benefit lies in the integration of partial knowledge of the environment at the collective level. In this contribution, we discuss various self-organization phenomena in animal swarms and human crowds from the point of view of information exchange among individuals. In particular, we provide a general description of collective dynamics across species and introduce a classification of these dynamics not only with respect to the way information is transferred among individuals but also with regard to the knowledge processing at the collective level. Finally, we highlight the fact that the individual's ability to learn from past experiences can have a feedback effect on the collective dynamics, as experienced with the development of behavioral conventions in pedestrian crowds.
343	distributed	2008	Keil, FC; Stein, C; Webb, L; Billings, VD; Rozenblit, L	Discerning the division of cognitive labor: An emerging understanding of how knowledge is clustered in other minds	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The division of cognitive labor is fundamental to all cultures. Adults have a strong sense of how knowledge is clustered in the world around them and use that sense to access additional information, defer to relevant experts, and ground their own incomplete understandings. One prominent way of clustering knowledge is by disciplines similar to those that comprise the natural and social sciences. Seven studies explored an emerging sense of these discipline-based ways of clustering of knowledge. Even 5-year-olds could cluster knowledge in a manner roughly corresponding to the departments of natural and social sciences in a university, doing so without any explicit awareness of those academic disciplines. But this awareness is fragile early on and competes with other ways of clustering knowledge. Over the next few years, children come to see discipline-based clusters as having a privileged status, one that may be linked to increasingly sophisticated assumptions about essences for natural kinds. Possible mechanisms for this developmental shift are examined.
344	distributed	2007	Greeno, JG; van de Sande, C	Perspectival understanding of conceptions and conceptual growth in interaction	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGIST	We propose a bridge between cognitive and sociocultural approaches that is anchored on the sociocultural side by distributed cognition and participation, and on the cognitiveside by information structures. We interpret information structures as the contents of distributed knowing and interaction in activity systems. Conceptual understanding is considered as achievement of discourse in activity systems, and conceptual growth is change in discourse practice that supports more effective conceptual understanding. We also introduce a concept of perspectival understanding, in which accounts of cognition, including conceptual understanding, include points of view. This concept generalizes the concept of schema by hypothesizing that a perspectival understanding can be constructed by constraint satisfaction when a sufficient schema is not known or recognized. We provide an example in which perspectival understanding was jointly constructed, illustrating an interactional process we call "constructive listening".
345	distributed	2010	Mundy, P; Jarrold, W	Infant joint attention, neural networks and social cognition	NEURAL NETWORKS	Neural network models of attention can provide a unifying approach to the study of human cognitive and emotional development (Posner & Rothbart, 2007). In this paper we argue that a neural network approach to the infant development of joint attention can inform our understanding of the nature of human social learning, symbolic thought process and social cognition. At its most basic, joint attention involves the capacity to coordinate one's own visual attention with that of another person. We propose that joint attention development involves increments in the capacity to engage in simultaneous or parallel processing of information about one's own attention and the attention of other people. Infant practice with joint attention is both a consequence and an organizer of the development of a distributed and integrated brain network involving frontal and parietal cortical systems. This executive distributed network first serves to regulate the capacity of infants to respond to and direct the overt behavior of other people in order to share experience with others through the social coordination of visual attention. In this paper we describe this parallel and distributed neural network model of joint attention development and discuss two hypotheses that stem from this model. One is that activation of this distributed network during coordinated attention enhances the depth of information processing and encoding beginning in the first year of life. We also propose that with development, joint attention becomes internalized as the capacity to socially coordinate mental attention to internal representations. As this occurs the executive joint attention network makes vital contributions to the development of human symbolic thinking and social cognition. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
346	distributed	2004	Schrire, S	Interaction and cognition in asynchronous computer conferencing	INSTRUCTIONAL SCIENCE	This paper is based on a multiple-case study of the learning process in three asynchronous computer conferences. The conferences were part of the distance learning component in doctoral degree courses in computing technology in education offered at an American university. The conferences were analyzed from a number of perspectives, the emphasis in this paper being on the dimensions of interaction and cognition. Although similar interaction patterns were identified in the three conferences, each conference also showed distinctive patterns, which were related to factors such as instructor moderation, structuring of the instructional task and the emergence of student moderation of the discussion in specific threads. Three models were used to evaluate cognition: Bloom's Taxonomy (Bloom, Engelhart, Furst, Hill, & Krathwohl, Handbook 1, Cognitive Domain, Longman, London, 1956), the SOLO Taxonomy (Biggs & Collis, Evaluating the Quality of Learning: The SOLO Taxonomy, Academic Press, New York, 1982) and the Practical Inquiry Model of Cognitive Presence (Garrison, Anderson & Archer, The American Journal of Distance Education 15(1)7, 2001). Correspondences were found among the three models and all three conferences were characterized by higher-order thinking. When higher-order thinking was defined in terms of the distributed cognition occurring during practical inquiry, the advanced phases of cognition were found to be related to synergistic interaction in the conference threads. The findings serve to define the knowledge-building processes occurring in asynchronous computer conferencing. They also lend support to views of learning as dialogical and to social constructivist approaches to learning and teaching.
347	distributed	2013	Dillenbourg, P	Design for classroom orchestration	COMPUTERS & EDUCATION	0
348	distributed	2010	Liu, ZC; Stasko, JT	Mental Models, Visual Reasoning and Interaction in Information Visualization: A Top-down Perspective	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VISUALIZATION AND COMPUTER GRAPHICS	Although previous research has suggested that examining the interplay between internal and external representations can benefit our understanding of the role of information visualization (InfoVis) in human cognitive activities, there has been little work detailing the nature of internal representations, the relationship between internal and external representations and how interaction is related to these representations. In this paper, we identify and illustrate a specific kind of internal representation, mental models, and outline the high-level relationships between mental models and external visualizations. We present a top-down perspective of reasoning as model construction and simulation, and discuss the role of visualization in model based reasoning. From this perspective, interaction can be understood as active modeling for three primary purposes: external anchoring, information foraging, and cognitive offloading. Finally we discuss the implications of our approach for design, evaluation and theory development.
349	distributed	2007	Kravchenko, AV	Essential properties of language, or, why language is not a code	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Despite a strong tradition of viewing coded equivalence as the underlying principle of linguistic semiotics, it lacks the power needed to understand and explain language as an empirical phenomenon characterized by complex dynamics. Applying the biology of cognition to the nature of the human cognitive/linguistic capacity as rooted in the dynamics of reciprocal causality between an organism and the world, we can show language to be connotational rather than denotational. This leaves no room for the various 'code-models' of language exploited in traditional linguistics. Bio-cognitive analysis leads to deeper insights into the essence of language as a biologically based, cognitively motivated, circularly organized serniotic activity in a consensual domain of interactions aimed at adapting to, and, ultimately, gaining control of the environment. The understanding that cognition is grounded in the dynamics of biological self-organization fits both the integrational model of communication and distributed cognition. A short discussion of the key notions of representation, sign and signification, interpretation, intentionality, communication, and reciprocal causality is offered, showing that the notion of 'code' is only misleadingly applied to natural language. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
350	distributed	2004	McAdam, R	Knowledge creation and idea generation: a critical quality perspective	TECHNOVATION	Organisations, from all sectors, are facing a continual need to develop sustainable creativity and innovation as a result of increasingly rapid market, technology and people-based change. The aim of this paper is to briefly critique both knowledge creation (KC) and idea generation as key elements of creativity and innovation. The resultant objectives include the possible use of critically reflexive total quality management constructs as key enablers in this area. Furthermore, the determination of research directions and the enhancement of organisational approaches to creativity and innovation in the area of KC and idea generation. The concepts of distributed cognition and social constructionism are used to develop a taxonomy of KC that draws from different sources and philosophies. Critical total quality management (TQM) constructs and methods are used to illustrate how these forms of KC can be achieved in practice. It is contended that the idea generation literature and practice must address the underlying sources of KC before methods and techniques are devised. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
351	distributed	2001	Kirsh, D	The context of work	HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	The question of how to conceive and represent the context of work is explored from the theoretical perspective of distributed cognition. It is argued that to understand the office work context we need to go beyond tracking superficial physical attributes such as who or what is where and when and consider the state of digital resources, people's concepts, task state, social relations, and the local work culture, to name a few. In analyzing an office more deeply, three concepts are especially helpful: entry points, action landscapes, and coordinating mechanisms. An entry point is a structure or cue that represents an invitation to enter an information space or office task. An activity landscape is part mental construct and part physical; it is the space users interactively construct out of the resources they find when trying to accomplish a task. A coordinating mechanism is an artifact, such as a schedule or clock, or an environmental structure such as the layout of papers to be signed, which helps a user manage the complexity of his task. Using these three concepts we can abstract away from many of the surface attributes of work context and define the deep structure of a setting-the invariant structure that many office settings share. A long-term challenge for context-aware computing is to operationalize these analytic concepts.
352	distributed	2009	Galantucci, B	Experimental Semiotics: A New Approach for Studying Communication as a Form of Joint Action	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In the last few years, researchers have begun to investigate the emergence of novel forms of human communication in the laboratory. I survey this growing line of research, which may be called experimental semiotics, from three distinct angles. First, I situate the new approach in its theoretical and historical context. Second, I review a sample of studies that exemplify experimental semiotics. Third, I present an empirical study that illustrates how the new approach can help us understand the socio-cognitive underpinnings of human communication. The main conclusion of the paper will be that, by reproducing micro samples of historical processes in the laboratory, experimental semiotics offers new powerful tools for investigating human communication as a form of joint action.
353	distributed	2006	Nemeth, C; O'Connor, M; Klock, PA; Cook, R	Discovering Healthcare cognition: The use of cognitive artifacts to reveal cognitive work	ORGANIZATION STUDIES	Healthcare systems, especially hospital operating room suites, have properties that make them ideal for the study of the cognitive work using the naturalistic decision-making (NDM) approach. This variable, complex, high-tempo setting provides a unique opportunity to examine the ways that clinicians plan, monitor, and cope with the irreducible uncertainty that underlies this work domain. As frontline managers, anesthesia coordinators plan and manage anesthesia assignments for surgical procedures. As frontline managers, coordinators develop and use cognitive artifacts to distribute cognition across time and among members of the acute care staff. Examination of these cognitive artifacts and their use reveals the hidden subtleties of the coordinators' work. The use of NDM methods including cognitive artifact analysis to understand cognitive work generates insights that extend beyond the operator level to the study of team-level cognition. Results can be used to create computer-based artifacts that aid individual and team cognition.
354	distributed	2003	Gorman, PN; Lavelle, MB; Ash, JS	Order creation and communication in healthcare	METHODS OF INFORMATION IN MEDICINE	Objectives: The aim of this paper is to examine the adequacy of the concept of Physician Order Entry (POE) as a model for clinical systems, and to suggest an alternative understanding of the order creation and communication process. Methods: The study is based on an interpretative analysis of POE as a model for clinical systems and the results of our recent fieldwork. Results: Observations from our recent fieldwork suggest that orders, like patient care in general, emerge from interactions among patients, physicians, nurses, family members, and others, employing a variety of technologies and information resources in the process. Orders as we hove observed them originate, are negotiated, and are carried out in a dynamically evolving group with fluctuating membership and shifting role responsibilities. Furthermore, orders by themselves represent only a partial picture of what is done for the patient. Conclusion: We argue that information systems are more likely to be helpful if they accommodate and facilitate POE as a multidisciplinary collaboration effort and fit better into the larger system of patient care.
355	distributed	2002	O'Hara, KP; Taylor, A; Newman, W; Sellen, AJ	Understanding the materiality of writing from multiple sources	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	Writing research has typically focussed on the text production elements of writing. Many everyday writing tasks, however, cannot be characterized simply in terms of text production since they often involve the use of source materials to support the composition process. As such, these tasks are better thought of as hybrid tasks. Such hybrid tasks have been given relatively little attention in the literature and what little work has been done has taken a purely cognitive approach that downplays the material context within which the task takes place. Following Haas' critique of mainstream writing research which advocated the need to consider the material tools and artefacts in theories of writing, this paper takes a similar approach in relation to the hybrid tasks of writing while reading from multiple sources. A study is presented that explores a range of everyday writing from multiple sources in their real-world contexts. The study highlights a number of important characteristics of the interaction with the material artefacts used during these tasks and the impact that these have on the underlying cognitive processes. The hope is that these will begin to offer some grounding on which future theoretical understanding of these hybrid tasks can build, as well as providing useful insights into the design of technologies to support these tasks. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd.
356	distributed	2008	Hazlehurst, B; Gorman, PN; McMullen, CK	Distributed cognition: An alternative model of cognition for medical informatics	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MEDICAL INFORMATICS	Background: Medical informatics has been guided by an individual-centered model of human cognition, inherited from classical theory of mind, in which knowledge, problem-solving, and information-processing responsible for intelligent behavior all derive from the inner workings of an individual agent. Objectives and results: In this paper we argue that medical informatics commitment to the classical model of cognition conflates the processing performed by the minds of individual agents with the processing performed by the larger distributed activity systems within which individuals operate. We review trends in cognitive science that seek to close the gap between general-purpose models of cognition and applied considerations of real-world human performance. One outcome is the theory of distributed cognition, in which the unit of analysis for understanding performance is the activity system which comprises a group of human actors, their tools and environment, and is organized by a particular history of goal-directed action and interaction. Conclusion: We describe and argue for the relevance of distributed cognition to medical informatics, both for the study of human performance in healthcare and for the design of technologies meant to enhance this performance. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
357	distributed	2007	Michel, AA	A distributed cognition perspective on newcomers' change processes: The management of cognitive uncertainty in two investment banks	ADMINISTRATIVE SCIENCE QUARTERLY	This paper examines newcomers' cognitive change processes in two investment banks during their socialization. A two-year ethnographic study examines how the two banks managed the duration of junior bankers' cognitive uncertainty differently, which resulted in distinct forms of individual cognitive change and cognition at the organizational level. Red Bank reduced cognitive uncertainty such that bankers experienced it as transient. It conveyed abstract concepts so that bankers could solve problems independently using deduction. This created an individual-centric organizational cognition. To highlight situational uniqueness, Amp Bank amplified cognitive uncertainty such that bankers experienced it as persistent. This created a collective-centric organizational cognition: because demands exceeded individuals' cognitive capacity, bankers used organizational resources to solve problems inductively. A grounded theory depicts the mutual constitution of individual and organizational cognition, including the relation of these levels over time and how the same individual cognitive process operates differently in a different organizational cognitive context. It uses a distributed cognition framework to contribute to theory development on how cognition becomes diversified and specialized in organizations.
358	distributed	2003	Das, A	Knowledge and productivity in technical support work	MANAGEMENT SCIENCE	In this paper, we examine the process of technical support work and the role of knowledge in enhancing the productivity of such work. We develop the concepts of problem-solving tasks and moves to describe technical support work, while using call resolution time and problem escalation as measures of productivity. Using hierarchical log-linear modeling, we establish the link between problem-solving moves and productivity. We find that the mix of moves exercised in technical support strongly depends on the formulation of tasks by those requesting support. Because the formulation of tasks is performed by users, knowledge management initiatives must target users as well as support providers to have the desired impact on productivity.
359	distributed	2008	Sharp, H; Robinson, H	Collaboration and co-ordination in mature eXtreme programming teams	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	Mature eXtreme programming (XP) teams are highly collaborative and self-organising. In previous studies, we have observed that these teams rely on two apparently simple mechanisms of co-ordination and collaboration: story cards and the Wall. Story cards capture and embody the user stories which form the basis of implementation, while the Wall is a physical space used to organise and display the cards being implemented during the current development cycle (called an iteration). In this paper, we analyse the structure and use of story cards and the Wall in three mature XP teams, using a distributed cognition approach. The teams work in different commercial organisations developing different systems, yet we find significant similarities between their use of these two artefacts. Although simple, teams use the cards and the Wall in sophisticated ways to represent and communicate information that is vital to support their activities. We discuss the significance of the physical medium for the story cards and the Wall in an XP team and discuss the considerations that need to be taken into account for the design of technology to support the teams. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
360	distributed	2007	Love, N	Are languages digital codes?	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Language use is commonly understood to involve digital signalling, which imposes certain constraints and restrictions on linguistic communication. Two papers by Ross [Ross, D., 2004. Metalinguistic signalling for coordination amongst social agents. Language Sciences 26,621-642; Ross, D., this issue. H. sapiens as ecologically special: what does language contribute? Language Sciences 29] are discussed in this connection. It is evident that the particular limitations of digital language that Ross is interested in depend on the claim not just that language is (partly) digital but that languages are digital codes. But it is questionable whether languages are codes at all. The idea that they are may derive some force from the fact that the most commonplace and familiar semiotic devices we call 'codes' are digital in character. If codes are digital and linguistic units are in some sense or degree digital, that may explain the temptation to think of languages as digital codes. But closer examination of the digitality of linguistic units offers no support for the digital-code idea, for language use, it is argued, is in its essence fundamentally analogical. (c) 2007 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
361	distributed	2008	Liu, ZC; Nersessian, NJ; Stasko, JT	Distributed Cognition as a Theoretical Framework for Information Visualization	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VISUALIZATION AND COMPUTER GRAPHICS	Even though information visualization (InfoVis) research has matured in recent years, it is generally acknowledged that the field still lacks supporting, encompassing theories. In this paper, we argue that the distributed cognition framework can be used to substantiate the theoretical foundation of InfoVis. We highlight fundamental assumptions and theoretical constructs of the distributed cognition approach, based on the cognitive science literature and a real life scenario. We then discuss how the distributed cognition framework can have an impact on the research directions and methodologies we take as InfoVis researchers. Our contributions are as follows. First, we highlight the view that cognition is more an emergent property of interaction than a property of the human mind. Second, we argue that a reductionist approach to study the abstract properties of isolated human minds may not be useful in informing InfoVis design. Finally we propose to make cognition an explicit research agenda, and discuss the implications on how we perform evaluation and theory building.
362	distributed	2004	Nemeth, CP; Cook, RI; O'Connor, M; Klock, PA	Using cognitive artifacts to understand distributed cognition	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS MAN AND CYBERNETICS PART A-SYSTEMS AND HUMANS	Studies of patient safety have identified gaps in current work including the need for research about communication and information sharing among healthcare providers. They have also encouraged the use of decision support tools to improve human performance. Distributed cognition is the shared awareness of goals, plans, and details that no single individual grasps. Cognitive artifacts are objects such as: schedules, display boards, lists, and worksheets that form part of a distributed cognition. Cognitive artifacts that are related to operating room (OR) scheduling include: the availabilities; sheet, master schedule, OR graph, and OR board. All provide a "way in" to understand how teams in the acute care setting dynamically plan and manage the balance between demand for care and the resources available to provide it. This work has import for the way that information technology supports the organization, management, and use of healthcare resources. Better computer-supported cognitive artifacts will benefit patient safety by making teamwork processes, planning, communications, and resource management more resilient.
363	distributed	2003	Giere, RN; Moffatt, B	Distributed cognition: Where the cognitive and the social merge	SOCIAL STUDIES OF SCIENCE	Among the many contested boundaries in science studies is that between the cognitive and the social. Here, we are concerned to question this boundary from a perspective within the cognitive sciences based on the notion of distributed cognition. We first present two of many contemporary sources of the notion of distributed cognition, one from the study of artificial neural networks and one from cognitive anthropology. We then proceed to reinterpret two well-known essays by Bruno Latour, 'Visualization and Cognition: Thinking with Eyes and Hands' and 'Circulating Reference: Sampling the Soil in the Amazon Forest'. In both cases we find the cognitive and the social merged in a system of distributed cognition without any appeal to agonistic encounters. For us, results do not come to be regarded as veridical because they are widely accepted; they come to be widely accepted because, in the context of an appropriate distributed cognitive system, their apparent veracity can be made evident to anyone with the capacity to understand the workings of the system.
364	distributed	2012	Krueger, J	Seeing mind in action	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Much recent work on social cognition and empathy in philosophy of mind and cognitive science has been guided by the assumption that minds are composed of intracranial phenomena, perceptually inaccessible and thus unobservable to everyone but their owners. I challenge this claim. I defend the view that at least some mental states and processes-or at least some parts of some mental states and processes-are at times visible, capable of being directly perceived by others. I further argue that, despite its initial implausibility, this view receives robust support from several strands of empirical research.
365	distributed	2001	Winsor, DA	Learning to do knowledge work in systems of distributed cognition	JOURNAL OF BUSINESS AND TECHNICAL COMMUNICATION	Within work sires that engage in knowledge work, newcomers have particular difficulty acquiring knowledge because knowledge keeps changing. Newcomers have to assimilate currently accepted knowledge while remaining open to learning and even generating new knowledge. Such acquisition and generation of communal knowledge are examples of distributed cognition. In workplaces engaging in knowledge work (where knowledge is the primary product), distributed cognition aims at a less stable goal than the one that Hutchins describes for ship navigation. A study of six summer interns in an engineering development center shows that,for them and their more experienced colleagues, learning did not precede activity hut rather was the means by which they remained attuned to activity and able to function. Cognition was distributed not only among people but also among people and their tools. Communication tools were particularly important because communication was the means by which the system functioned as a unified whole.
366	distributed	2010	Andrews, C; Endert, A; North, C	Space to Think: Large, High-Resolution Displays for Sensemaking	CHI2010: PROCEEDINGS OF THE 28TH ANNUAL CHI CONFERENCE ON HUMAN FACTORS IN COMPUTING SYSTEMS, VOLS 1-4	Space supports human cognitive abilities in a myriad of ways. The note attached to the side of the monitor, the papers spread out on the desk, diagrams scrawled on a whiteboard, and even the keys left out on the counter are all examples of using space to recall, reveal relationships, and think. Technological advances have made it possible to construct large display environments in which space has real meaning. This paper examines how increased space affects the way displays are regarded and used within the context of the cognitively demanding task of sensemaking. A pair of studies were conducted demonstrating how the spatial environment supports sensemaking by becoming part of the distributed cognitive process, providing both external memory and a semantic layer.
367	distributed	2004	Le Bot, P	Human reliability data, human error and accident models - illustration through the Three Mile Island accident analysis	RELIABILITY ENGINEERING & SYSTEM SAFETY	Our first objective is to provide a panorama of Human Reliability data used in EDF's Safety Probabilistic Studies, and then, since these concepts are at the heart of Human Reliability and its methods, to go over the notion of human error and the understanding of accidents. We are not sure today that it is actually possible to provide in this field a foolproof and productive theoretical framework. Consequently, the aim of this article is to suggest potential paths of action and to provide information on EDF's progress along those paths which enables us to produce the most potentially useful Human Reliability analyses while taking into account current knowledge in Human Sciences. The second part of this article illustrates our point of view as EDF researchers through the analysis of the most famous civil nuclear accident, the Three Mile Island unit accident in 1979. Analysis of this accident allowed us to validate our positions regarding the need to move, in the case of an accident, from the concept of human error to that of systemic failure in the operation of systems such as a nuclear power plant. These concepts rely heavily on the notion of distributed cognition and we will explain how we applied it. These concepts were implemented in the MERMOS Human Reliability Probabilistic Assessment methods used in the latest EDF Probabilistic Human Reliability Assessment. Besides the fact that it is not very productive to focus exclusively on individual psychological error, the design of the MERMOS method and its implementation have confirmed two things: the significance of qualitative data collection for Human Reliability, and the central role held by Human Reliability experts in building knowledge about emergency operation, which in effect consists of Human Reliability data collection. The latest conclusion derived from the implementation of MERMOS is that, considering the difficulty in building 'generic' Human Reliability data in the field we are involved in, the best data for the analyst consist of the knowledge built up through already existing probabilistic analyses. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
368	distributed	2013	Flynn, EG; Laland, KN; Kendal, RL; Kendal, JR	Target Article with Commentaries: Developmental niche construction	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	Niche construction is the modification of components of the environment through an organism's activities. Humans modify their environments mainly through ontogenetic and cultural processes, and it is this reliance on learning, plasticity and culture that lends human niche construction a special potency. In this paper we aim to facilitate discussion between researchers interested in niche construction and those interested in human cognitive development by highlighting some of the related processes. We discuss the transmission of culturally relevant information, how the human mind is a symbol-generating and artefact-devising system, and how these processes are bi-directional, with infants and children both being directed, and directing, their own development. We reflect on these in the light of four approaches: natural pedagogy, activity theory, distributed cognition and situated learning. Throughout, we highlight pertinent examples in non-humans that parallel or further explicate the processes discussed. Finally we offer three future directions; two involving the use of new techniques in the realms of neuroscience and modelling, and the third suggesting exploration of changes in the effects of niche construction across the lifespan.
369	distributed	2008	Patel, VL; Cohen, T	New perspectives on error in critical care	CURRENT OPINION IN CRITICAL CARE	Purpose of review Despite unprecedented attention on the issue of medical error over the last 8 years, there is little evidence of widely available improvements in patient safety. The present review addresses some alternative approaches to the study of human error, and their implications for the characterization of medical error. Recent findings The complex nature of healthcare work has been proposed as a primary barrier to the implementation of effective safety measures. Approaches to error, based on individual accountability, cannot address this complexity. Strategies to eradicate error fail to appreciate that error detection and recovery are integral to the function of complex cognitive systems. Through investigation of the emergence of and recovery from error, one can identify new approaches for error management. Summary The present review discusses contemporary approaches to error that are able to address the complex nature of critical care work. Instead of producing situation-specific 'quick fixes', they are more likely to reveal generalizable mechanisms of error that can support widely applicable solutions.
370	distributed	2002	Giere, RN	Discussion note: Distributed cognition in epistemic cultures	PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE	In Epistemic Cultures (1999), Karin Knorr Cetina argues that different scientific fields exhibit different epistemic cultures. She claims that in high energy physics (HEP) individual persons are displaced as epistemic subjects in favor of experiments themselves. In molecular biology (MB), by contrast, individual persons remain the primary epistemic subjects. Using Ed Hutchins' (1995) account of navigation aboard a traditional US Navy ship as a prototype, I argue that both HEP and MB exhibit forms of distributed cognition. That is, in both fields cognition is distributed across individual persons and complex artifacts. The cognitive system producing the knowledge is heterogeneous. Nevertheless, in both fields we can reserve epistemic agency for the human components of these systems. We do not need to postulate new distributed cognitive agents, let alone ones exhibiting new forms of consciousness.
371	distributed	2007	Kim, B; Reeves, TC	Reframing research on learning with technology: in search of the meaning of cognitive tools	INSTRUCTIONAL SCIENCE	Previous research and development with cognitive tools has been limited by an inadequate conceptualization of the complexity underlying their nature and affordances for supporting learning and performance. This paper provides a new perspective on cognitive tools through the lens of the theories of distributed cognition and expertise. The learner, tool, and activity form a joint learning system, and the expertise in the world should be reflected not only in the tool but also in the learning activity within which learners make use of the tool. This enhanced perspective is used to clarify the nature of cognitive tools and distinguish them from other types of computer tools used in learning contexts. We have classified cognitive tools considering how expertise is classified: domain-independent (general) cognitive tools, domain-generic cognitive tools, and domain-specific cognitive tools. The implications are presented in reference to research, development, and practice of cognitive tools. The capabilities of cognitive tools should be differentiated from those of the human, but regarded as part of the system of expertise. Cognitive tools should be accompanied by appropriate learning activities, and relevant learner performance should then be assessed in the context of tool use.
372	distributed	2006	Furniss, D; Blandford, A	Understanding emergency medical dispatch in terms of distributed cognition: a case study	ERGONOMICS	Emergency medical dispatch (EMD) is typically a team activity, requiring fluid coordination and communication between team members. Such working situations have often been described in terms of distributed cognition (DC), a framework for understanding team working. DC takes account of factors such as shared representations and artefacts to support reasoning about team working. Although the language of DC has been developed over several years, little attention has been paid to developing a methodology or reusable representation which supports reasoning about an interactive system from a DC perspective. We present a case study in which we developed a method for constructing a DC account of team working in the domain of EMD, focusing on the use of the method for describing an existing EMD work system, identifying sources of weakness in that system, and reasoning about the likely consequences of redesign of the system. The resulting DC descriptions have yielded new insights into the design of EMD work and of tools to support that work within a large EMD centre.
373	distributed	2014	Stanton, NA	Representing distributed cognition in complex systems: how a submarine returns to periscope depth	ERGONOMICS	This paper presents the Event Analysis of Systemic Teamwork (EAST) method as a means of modelling distributed cognition in systems. The method comprises three network models (i.e. task, social and information) and their combination. This method was applied to the interactions between the sound room and control room in a submarine, following the activities of returning the submarine to periscope depth. This paper demonstrates three main developments in EAST. First, building the network models directly, without reference to the intervening methods. Second, the application of analysis metrics to all three networks. Third, the combination of the aforementioned networks in different ways to gain a broader understanding of the distributed cognition. Analyses have shown that EAST can be used to gain both qualitative and quantitative insights into distributed cognition. Future research should focus on the analyses of network resilience and modelling alternative versions of a system. Practitioner summary: This paper presents a practical method for analysing and evaluating distributed cognition in complex systems. The Event Analysis of Systemic Teamwork (EAST) method presents task, social and information network models both individually and combined. The network models can be analysed qualitatively by visual inspection and quantitatively using network analysis metrics.
374	distributed	2010	Bleakley, A	Blunting Occam's razor: aligning medical education with studies of complexity	JOURNAL OF EVALUATION IN CLINICAL PRACTICE	Clinical effectiveness and efficiency in medicine for patient benefit should be grounded in the quality of medical education. In turn, the quality of medical education should be informed by contemporary learning theory that offers high explanatory, exploratory and predictive power. Multiple team-based health care interventions and associated policy are now routinely explored and explained through complexity theory. Yet medical education - how medical students learn to become doctors and how doctors learn to become clinical specialists or primary care generalists - continues to refuse contemporary, work-based social learning theories that have deep resonance with models of complexity. This can be explained ideologically, where medicine is grounded in a tradition of heroic individualism and knowledge is treated as private capital. In contrast, social learning theories resonating with complexity theory emphasize adaptation through collaboration, where knowledge is commonly owned. The new era of clinical teamwork demands, however, that we challenge the tradition of autonomy, bringing social learning theories in from the cold, to reveal their affinities with complexity science and demonstrate their powers of illumination. Social learning theories informed by complexity science can act as a democratizing force in medical education, helping practitioners to work more effectively in non-linear, complex, dynamic systems through inter-professionalism, shared tolerance of ambiguity and distributed cognition. Taking complexity science seriously and applying its insights demands a shift in cultural mindset in medical education. Inevitably, patterns of resistance will arise to frustrate such potential innovation.
375	distributed	2008	Hakimzada, AF; Green, RA; Sayan, OR; Zhang, JJ; Patel, VL	The nature and occurrence of registration errors in the emergency department	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MEDICAL INFORMATICS	Research into the nature and occurrence of medical errors has shown that these often result from a combination of factors that lead to the breakdown of workflow. Nowhere is this more critical than in the emergency department (ED), where the focus of clinical decisions is on the timely evaluation and stabilization of patients. This paper reports on the nature of errors and their implications for patient safety in an adult ED, using methods of ethnographic observation, interviews, and think-aloud protocols. Data were analyzed using modified "grounded theory," which refers to a theory developed inductively from a body of data. Analysis revealed four classes of errors, relating to errors of misidentification, ranging from multiple medical record numbers, wrong patient identification or address, and in one case, switching of one patient's identification information with those of another. Further analysis traced the root of the errors to ED registration. These results indicate that the nature of errors in the emergency department are complex, multi-layered and result from an intertwined web of activity, in which stress in the work environment, high patient volume and the tendency to adopt shortcuts play a significant role. The need for information technology (IT) solutions to these problems as well as the impact of alternative policies is discussed. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
376	distributed	1992	STAR, SL	THE TROJAN DOOR - ORGANIZATIONS, WORK, AND THE OPEN BLACK-BOX	SYSTEMS PRACTICE	This paper summarizes recent work on organizations, artificial intelligence systems, human-computer interaction, etc., which emphasizes the situated, distributed, and fluid nature of social systems. This contrasts with the traditional way of writing and thinking about social systems which sees them as disembodied, ideal. formal notions of thought. The implications of this new view of systems for social actors, information, knowledge, and technology are discussed. The literature reviewed offers a new way of talking about systems and their practices.
377	distributed	2012	Bender, A; Beller, S	Nature and culture of finger counting: Diversity and representational effects of an embodied cognitive tool	COGNITION	Studies like the one conducted by Domahs et al. (2010, in Cognition) corroborate that finger counting habits affect how numbers are processed, and legitimize the assumption that this effect is culturally modulated. The degree of cultural diversity in finger counting, however, has been grossly underestimated in the field at large, which, in turn, has restricted research questions and designs. In this paper, we demonstrate that fingers as a tool for counting are not only naturally available, but are also and crucially so culturally encoded. To substantiate this, we outline the variability in finger counting and illustrate each of its types with instances from the literature. We argue that the different types of finger counting all constitute distinct representational systems, and we use their properties-dimensionality, dimensional representation, base and sub-base values, extendibility and extent, sign count, and regularity to devise a typology of such systems. This allows us to explore representational effects, that is, the cognitive implications these properties may have, for instance, for the efficiency of information encoding and representation, ease of learning and mastering the system, or memory retrieval and cognitive load. We then highlight the ambivalent consequences arising from structural inconsistencies between finger counting and other modes of number representation like verbal or notational systems, and we discuss how this informs questions on the evolution and development of counting systems. Based on these analyses, we suggest some directions for future research in the field of embodied cognition that would profit substantially from taking into account the cultural diversity in finger counting. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
378	distributed	1998	Derry, SJ; DuRussel, LA; O'Donnell, AM	Individual and distributed cognitions in interdisciplinary teamwork: A developing case study and emerging theory	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	We present a developing distributed cognition theory of interdisciplinary collaboration that incorporates concepts from both situated cognition and information-processing theory. This theoretical framework is being refined as it is used for analyzing interdisciplinary collaboration within the National Institute for Science Education (NISE). Our analyses are intended to improve scientific understanding of collaborative processes that influence productivity and quality of interdisciplinary work within the NISE and beyond. A critical group meeting in the early development of one interdisciplinary working team is analyzed using language and ideas from our theoretical perspective.
379	distributed	2012	Rajkomar, A; Blandford, A	Understanding infusion administration in the ICU through Distributed Cognition	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	To understand how healthcare technologies are used in practice and evaluate them, researchers have argued for adopting the theoretical framework of Distributed Cognition (DC). This paper describes the methods and results of a study in which a DC methodology, Distributed Cognition for Teamwork (DiCoT), was applied to study the use of infusion pumps by nurses in an Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Data was gathered through ethnographic observations and interviews. Data analysis consisted of constructing the representational models of DiCoT, focusing on information flows, physical layouts, social structures and artefacts. The findings show that there is significant distribution of cognition in the ICU: socially, among nurses; physically, through the material environment; and through technological artefacts. The DiCoT methodology facilitated the identification of potential improvements that could increase the safety and efficiency of nurses' interactions with infusion technology. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
380	distributed	2012	Lajoie, SP; Lu, JY	Supporting collaboration with technology: does shared cognition lead to co-regulation in medicine?	METACOGNITION AND LEARNING	The theoretical distinctions between metacognition, self-regulation and self-regulated learning are often blurred which makes the definition of co-regulation in group learning situations even more difficult. We have started to explore co-regulation in the context of decision making in simulated emergencies where medical teams work together to manage patient cases. Our earlier work has described the relationship between collaborative decision-making in this context as well as discourse patterns that emerge in a simulated medical emergency (Lu & Lajoie, 2008). This paper examines the interactions that occur during this simulation that reflect the relationship between co-regulation and medical decision-making. There are two collaborative learning conditions, a traditional situation where the instructor facilitates collaboration by using a whiteboard to document the group's construction of a medical argument (the traditional whiteboard condition, TW). The second condition uses technology to facilitate the collaboration, where individuals use laptops and an interactive whiteboard (IW) where they can interact with the problem list as it is being created. Our assumption was that the IW would facilitate communication beyond the teacher-student, to include student-student both within and between the various subgroups. The IW group could document their medical arguments by using a structured template for constructing, annotating and sharing arguments. We found that participants in the IW condition differed from the TW condition in that they engaged in more adaptive decision-making behavior early on in the intervention. Similar overall levels of metacognitive activity were found in both conditions but the pattern and timing of metacognitive categories varied. Specifically, the IW group engaged in more planning and orienting than the TW group at the outset of the problem. Early engagement and co-regulation occurred in the IW group which led to shared understandings and subsequently to effective patient management in latter sessions (11.5% vs. 3.6% in TW). Technology supported greater metacognitive activity overall (44% vs 29% in the non supported group). Furthermore, technology facilitated greater planning (23% vs. 10%) and orienting (10% vs 1%) early in the medical problem solving activity. We refer to specific indicators in the discourse that help operationalize the concept of co-regulation.
381	distributed	2010	Kittur, A; Kraut, RE	Beyond Wikipedia: Coordination and Conflict in Online Production Groups	2010 ACM CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER SUPPORTED COOPERATIVE WORK	Online production groups have the potential to transform the way that knowledge is produced and disseminated. One of the most widely used forms of online production is the wiki, which has been used in domains ranging from science to education to enterprise. We examined the development of and interactions between coordination and conflict in a sample of 6811 wiki production groups. We investigated the influence of four coordination mechanisms: intra-article communication, inter-user communication, concentration of workgroup structure, and policy and procedures. We also examined the growth of conflict, finding the density of users in an information space to be a significant predictor. Finally, we analyzed the effectiveness of the four coordination mechanisms on managing conflict, finding differences in how each scaled to large numbers of contributors. Our results suggest that coordination mechanisms effective for managing conflict are not always the same as those effective for managing task quality, and that designers must take into account the social benefits of coordination mechanisms in addition to their production benefits.
382	distributed	2009	Nersessian, NJ	How Do Engineering Scientists Think? Model-Based Simulation in Biomedical Engineering Research Laboratories	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Designing, building, and experimenting with physical simulation models are central problem-solving practices in the engineering sciences. Model-based simulation is an epistemic activity that includes exploration, generation and testing of hypotheses, explanation, and inference. This paper argues that to interpret and understand how these simulation models function in creating knowledge and technologies requires construing problem solving as accomplished by a researcher-artifact system. It draws on and further develops the framework of "distributed cognition" to interpret data collected in ethnographic and cognitive-historical studies of two biomedical engineering research laboratories, and articulates the notion of distributed model-based cognition to answer the question posed in the title.
383	distributed	2009	Walsh, MM; Anderson, JR	The strategic nature of changing your mind	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	in two experiments, we studied how people's strategy choices emerge through an initial and then a more considered evaluation of available strategies. The experiments employed a computer-based paradigm where participants solved multiplication problems using mental and calculator solutions. In addition to recording responses and solution times, we gathered data on mouse cursor movements. Participants' motor behavior was revealing: although people rapidly initiated movement to the calculator box or the answer input box, they frequently changed their minds and went to the other box. Movement initiation direction depended on problem difficulty and calculator responsiveness. Ultimate strategy selection also depended on these factors, but was further influenced by movement initiation direction. We conclude that strategy selection is iterative, as revealed by these differences between early cursor movement and eventual strategy implementation. After rapidly initiating movement favoring one strategy, people carefully evaluate the applicability of that strategy in the current context. (C) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
384	distributed	2009	Galantucci, B; Sebanz, N	Joint Action: Current Perspectives	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In recent years researchers have begun to investigate how the perceptual, motor and cognitive activities of two or more individuals become organized into coordinated action. In the first part of this introduction we identify three common threads among the ten papers of this special issue that exemplify this new line of research. First, all of the papers are grounded in the experimental study of online interactions between two or more individuals. Second, albeit at different levels of analysis, the contributions focus on the mechanisms supporting joint action. Third, many of the papers investigate empirically the pre-requisites for the highly sophisticated forms of joint action that are typical of humans. In the second part of the introduction, we summarize each of the papers, highlighting more specific connections among them.
385	distributed	2001	Lowyck, J; Poysa, J	Design of collaborative learning environments	COMPUTERS IN HUMAN BEHAVIOR	Designing collaborative learning environments is dependent upon the descriptive knowledge base on learning and instruction. Firstly. the evolution in conceptions of design towards collaborative learning is described., starting from designing as an intuitive behaviour. Secondly. collaborative learning is described from different angles, like individuals-in-context, learner communities. including motivational factors and distributed cognition. It is evidenced that the adequate use of collaborative learning settings may contribute to the learning quality. Thirdly, the implications of collaborative theories on instructional design are outlined, centred around: student, knowledge, assessment and community. The interplay between these perspectives is challenged in new models of (co) design. In the conclusion, an interactive approach of designing environments is advocated. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
386	distributed	2012	Wallace, R	Consciousness, crosstalk, and the mereological fallacy: An evolutionary perspective	PHYSICS OF LIFE REVIEWS	The cross-sectional decontextualization afflicting contemporary neuroscience attributing to 'the brain' what is the province of the whole organism is mirrored by an evolutionary decontextualization exceptionalizing consciousness. The living state is characterized by cognitive processes at all scales and levels of organization. Many can be associated with dual information sources that 'speak' a 'language' of behavior-in-context. Shifting global broadcasts analogous to consciousness, albeit far slower wound healing, tumor control, immune function, gene expression, etc. have emerged through repeated evolutionary exaptation of the crosstalk and noise inherent to all information transmission. These recruit 'unconscious' cognitive modules into tunable arrays as needed to meet threats and opportunities across multiple frames of reference. The development is straightforward, based on the powerful necessary conditions imposed by the asymptotic limit theorems of communication theory, in the same sense that the Central Limit Theorem constrains sums of stochastic variates. Recognition of information as a form of free energy instantiated by physical processes that consume free energy permits analogs to phase transition and nonequilibrium thermodynamic arguments, leading to 'dynamic regression models' useful for data analysis. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
387	distributed	2012	Dror, IE; Wertheim, K; Fraser-Mackenzie, P; Walajtys, J	The Impact of Human-Technology Cooperation and Distributed Cognition in Forensic Science: Biasing Effects of AFIS Contextual Information on Human Experts*	JOURNAL OF FORENSIC SCIENCES	Experts play a critical role in forensic decision making, even when cognition is offloaded and distributed between human and machine. In this paper, we investigated the impact of using Automated Fingerprint Identification Systems (AFIS) on human decision makers. We provided 3680 AFIS lists (a total of 55,200 comparisons) to 23 latent fingerprint examiners as part of their normal casework. We manipulated the position of the matching print in the AFIS list. The data showed that latent fingerprint examiners were affected by the position of the matching print in terms of false exclusions and false inconclusives. Furthermore, the data showed that false identification errors were more likely at the top of the list and that such errors occurred even when the correct match was present further down the list. These effects need to be studied and considered carefully, so as to optimize human decision making when using technologies such as AFIS.
388	distributed	2011	Collins, SA; Bakken, S; Vawdrey, DK; Coiera, E; Currie, L	Model development for EHR interdisciplinary information exchange of ICU common goals	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MEDICAL INFORMATICS	Purpose: Effective interdisciplinary exchange of patient information is an essential component of safe, efficient, and patient-centered care in the intensive care unit (ICU). Frequent handoffs of patient care, high acuity of patient illness, and the increasing amount of available data complicate information exchange. Verbal communication can be affected by interruptions and time limitations. To supplement verbal communication, many ICUs rely on documentation in electronic health records (EHRs) to reduce errors of omission and information loss. The purpose of this study was to develop a model of EHR interdisciplinary information exchange of ICU common goals. Methods: The theoretical frameworks of distributed cognition and the clinical communication space were integrated and a previously published categorization of verbal information exchange was used. 59.5 h of interdisciplinary rounds in a neurovascular ICU were observed and five interviews and one focus group with ICU nurses and physicians were conducted. Results: Current documentation tools in the ICU were not sufficient to capture the nurses' and physicians' collaborative decision-making and verbal communication of goal-directed actions and interactions. Clinicians perceived the EHR to be inefficient for information retrieval, leading to a further reliance on verbal information exchange. Conclusion: The model suggests that EHRs should support: (1) information tools for the explicit documentation of goals, interventions, and assessments with synthesized and summarized information outputs of events and updates; and (2) messaging tools that support collaborative decision-making and patient safety double checks that currently occur between nurses and physicians in the absence of EHR support. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
389	distributed	2010	Saitwal, H; Feng, XA; Walji, M; Patel, V; Zhang, JJ	Assessing performance of an Electronic Health Record (EHR) using Cognitive Task Analysis	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MEDICAL INFORMATICS	Background: Many Electronic Health Record (EHR) systems fail to provide user-friendly interfaces due to the lack of systematic consideration of human-centered computing issues. Such interfaces can be improved to provide easy to use, easy to learn, and error-resistant EHR systems to the users. Objective: To evaluate the usability of an EHR system and suggest areas of improvement in the user interface. Methods: The user interface of the AHLTA (Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application) was analyzed using the Cognitive Task Analysis (CTA) method called GOMS (Goals, Operators, Methods, and Selection rules) and an associated technique called KLM (Keystroke Level Model). The GOMS method was used to evaluate the AHLTA user interface by classifying each step of a given task into Mental (Internal) or Physical (External) operators. This analysis was performed by two analysts independently and the inter-rater reliability was computed to verify the reliability of the GOMS method. Further evaluation was performed using KLM to estimate the execution time required to perform the given task through application of its standard set of operators. Results: The results are based on the analysis of 14 prototypical tasks performed by AHLTA users. The results show that on average a user needs to go through 106 steps to complete a task. To perform all 14 tasks, they would spend about 22 min (independent of system response time) for data entry, of which 11 min are spent on more effortful mental operators. The inter-rater reliability analysis performed for all 14 taskswas 0.8 (kappa), indicating good reliability of the method. Conclusion: This paper empirically reveals and identifies the following finding related to the performance of AHLTA: (1) large number of average total steps to complete common tasks, (2) high average execution time and (3) large percentage of mental operators. The user interface can be improved by reducing (a) the total number of steps and (b) the percentage of mental effort, required for the tasks. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
390	distributed	2007	Hakanson, L	Creating knowledge: the power and logic of articulation	INDUSTRIAL AND CORPORATE CHANGE	The current interest in the tacit aspects of knowledge has diverted attention from the economic significance of its converse, explicit or articulated knowledge, and, by implication, the importance of articulation-the process through which tacit skills and knowledge are made explicit-and codification-the process of rendering articulated knowledge in fixed, standardized and easily replicable form. In partial alignment with the literature on "distributed cognition" the article outlines a general model of articulation as a process involving the interplay of three elements: "theory," "codes," and "tools" in communities ranging in size from small groups to entire industries. The costs and benefits of articulation are discussed, drawing attention to how these may be affected by institutional and organizational design.
391	distributed	1998	Kuo, FY	Managerial intuition and the development of executive support systems	DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEMS	Managerial intuition is a well-recognized cognitive ability but still poorly understood for the purpose of developing effective Executive Support Systems (ESS). This paper reviews research on cognition involved in intuition. The review shows that, in everyday decision making, executives are not passive choice makers but are active sensemakers who rely on perception, action, and imaginistic reasoning to arrive at solutions to problems. The combination of these cognitive resources appears to be seamless. Furthermore, the knowledge needed for problem solving is distributed between the manager's mind and the surrounding world. As a result, managers' intuition can be effective in handling dynamic, ill-structured problem situations. To develop an ESS that fits this perception-action ecology of the manager's life in a hectic world, we must go beyond the emphasis of the tasks' functionalities. The author proposes an ecological model of managerial intuition and recommends methodologies that focus the analysis on the interplay between the manager and their environment. He also suggests guidelines to improve the ESS development such that the powerful intuition of managers and the analytic capability of the computer may be combined. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
392	distributed	2008	Sutton, J	Material Agency, Skills and History: Distributed Cognition and the Archaeology of Memory	MATERIAL AGENCY:TOWARDS A NON-ANTHROPOCENTRIC APPROACH	0
393	distributed	2004	Cowley, SJ	Contextualizing bodies: human infants and distributed cognition	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Linking a distributed view of cognition to an integrational perspective on language, learning to talk is presented as an ontogenctic achievement. Examining this as an epigenetic process permits an innovative sketch of how infants come to be heard as producing grammatical utterances. Appealing to 'shallow' or content-free cognition, I show how adjustments by contextualizing bodies allow adult overinterpretations to shape infant doings. Far from needing,representations', the baby uses joint activity, affect, and self-directed anticipative learning. Humans, then, use affective co-ordination to develop neurophysiological biases for speaking/hearing vocalizations around syllabic structures. This promotes a kind of agency that allows a 2 year old human, like an encultured bonobo, to act in ways that appear to be self-implicating, self-directing, self-regulating and self-serving. Both species can use (what we hear as) abstracta in novel and coherent behaviour. Unlike its wild counterpart, however, a human needs no external computational hardware. Rather, her achievement derives from strategic use of contextualizing bodies to gradually discover the rewards that accrue from taking part in utterance-activity. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
394	distributed	2014	Hutchins, E	The cultural ecosystem of human cognition	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Everybody knows that humans are cultural animals. Although this fact is universally acknowledged, many opportunities to exploit it are overlooked. In this article, I propose shifting our attention from local examples of extended mind to the cultural-cognitive ecosystems within which human cognition is embedded. I conclude by offering a set of conjectures about the features of cultural-cognitive ecosystems.
395	distributed	2012	Beunza, D; Stark, D	From dissonance to resonance: cognitive interdependence in quantitative finance	ECONOMY AND SOCIETY	This study explores the elusive social dimension of quantitative finance. We conducted three years of observations in the derivatives trading room of a major investment bank. We found that traders use models to translate stock prices into estimates of what their rivals think. Traders use these estimates to look out for possible errors in their own models. We found that this practice, reflexive modelling, enhances returns by turning prices into a vehicle for distributed cognition. But it also induces a dangerous form of cognitive interdependence: when enough traders overlook a key issue, their positions give misplaced reassurance to those traders that think similarly, disrupting their reflexive processes. In cases lacking diversity, dissonance thus gives way to resonance. Our analysis demonstrates how practices born in caution can lead to overconfidence and collective failure. We contribute to economic sociology by developing a socio-technical account that grapples with the new forms of sociality introduced by financial models - disembedded yet entangled; anonymous yet collective; impersonal yet, nevertheless, emphatically social.
396	distributed	2012	Collins, SA; Mamykina, L; Jordan, D; Stein, DM; Shine, A; Reyfman, P; Kaufman, D	In search of common ground in handoff documentation in an Intensive Care Unit	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	Objective: Handoff is an intra-disciplinary process, yet the flow of critical handoff information spans multiple disciplines. Understanding this information flow is important for the development of computer-based tools that supports the communication and coordination of patient care in a multi-disciplinary and highly specialized critical care setting. We aimed to understand the structure, functionality, and content of nurses' and physicians' handoff artifacts. Design: We analyzed 22 nurses' and physicians' handoff artifacts from a Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit (CTICU) at a large urban medical center. We combined artifact analysis with semantic coding based on our published Interdisciplinary Handoff Information Coding (IHIC) framework for a novel two-step data analysis approach. Results: We found a high degree of structure and overlap in the content of nursing and physician artifacts. Our findings demonstrated a non-technical, yet sophisticated, system with a high degree of structure for the organization and communication of patient data that functions to coordinate the work of multiple disciplines in a highly specialized unit of patient care. Limitations: This study took place in one CTICU. Further work is needed to determine the generalizability of the results. Conclusions: Our findings indicate that the development of semi-structured patient-centered interdisciplinary handoff tools with discipline specific views customized for specialty settings may effectively support handoff communication and patient safety. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
397	distributed	2010	Walker, GH; Stanton, NA; Baber, C; Wells, L; Gibson, H; Salmon, P; Jenkins, D	From ethnography to the EAST method: A tractable approach for representing distributed cognition in Air Traffic Control	ERGONOMICS	Command and control is a generic activity involving the exercise of authority over assigned resources, combined with planning, coordinating and controlling how those resources are used. The challenge for understanding this type of activity is that it is not often amenable to the conventional experimental/methodological approach. Command and control tends to be multi-faceted (so requires more than one method), is made up of interacting socio and technical elements (so requires a systemic approach) and exhibits aggregate behaviours that emerge from these interactions (so requires methods that go beyond reductionism). In these circumstances a distributed cognition approach is highly appropriate yet the existing ethnographic methods make it difficult to apply and, for non-specialist audiences, sometimes difficult to meaningfully interpret. The Event Analysis for Systemic Teamwork method is put forward as a means of working from a distributed cognition perspective but in a way that goes beyond ethnography. A worked example from Air Traffic Control is used to illustrate how the language of social science can be translated into the language of systems analysis. Statement of Relevance: Distributed cognition provides a highly appropriate conceptual response to complex work settings such as Air Traffic Control. This paper deals with how to realise those benefits in practice without recourse to problematic ethnographic techniques.
398	distributed	2008	Button, G	Against 'distributed cognition'	THEORY CULTURE & SOCIETY	Since its origination in psychology, cognitive theory has been articulated in a number of social science disciplines, most notably anthropology and sociology. It has also been important in shaping the intellectual landscape of emerging disciplines associated with the design of computer systems, human-computer interaction (HCI) and computer supported cooperative work (CSCW). Some people within these disciplines, however, have accepted the criticism of cognitive theory that its emphasis upon the existence and primacy of an interior world does not appreciate the public, cultural and situated grounding of human action. In the theory of 'distributed cognition' they believe, however, that they have found reconciliation between cognitive theory and their understanding of the cultural and social grounds of human action. It is argued here that the hopes for reconciliation are, however, misplaced. There are two main reasons for this. First, 'distributed cognition' is, simply, cognitive theory. Distributed cognition is an attempt to describe the cultural world in the terms of cognitive theory, not an attempt to describe it in its own terms. Thus it is shown that the criticisms of cognitive theory, that it is founded in a conceptually inappropriate distinction between an interior and a public world, are criticisms of distributed cognition. Second, distributed cognition does not actually explain anything about the social world. It is quite possible to subtract the statements about cognitive systems from descriptions of the social world without altering those descriptions one jot. It is thus concluded that distributed cognition is not a cultural overhaul of cognitive theory but an erroneous attempt to describe the cultural and social world in the terms of an illegitimate cognitive theory.
399	distributed	2007	Wilson, JR; Farrington-Darby, T; Cox, G; Bye, R; Hockey, GRJ	The railway as a socio-technical system: human factors at the heart of successful rail engineering	PROCEEDINGS OF THE INSTITUTION OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERS PART F-JOURNAL OF RAIL AND RAPID TRANSIT	High-quality engineering and operations management are key to meeting all the requirements of a successful railway-quality of service, reliable and safe performance, and maximum possible use of capacity. However, the railway is a socio-technical system and therefore has human factors at its core, which requires a strong integrated ergonomics contribution. Moreover, this contribution must be at a systems level rather than providing point solutions to particular equipment, interface, workplace, or job problems. This paper draws from the first two human factors projects in the EPSRC Rail Research UK programme, interpreting them for an engineering audience. The paper first emphasizes and gives examples of the need for a systems ergonomics contribution to engineering an improved railway. Then the available literature is summarized in a structured fashion. Finally, a short summary is provided of the research which has started to develop a distributed cognition model of work on the railways, especially across functional groups of signalling, control, and train driving.
400	distributed	2006	Blandford, A; Furniss, D	DiCoT: A methodology for applying Distributed Cognition to the design of teamworking systems	INTERACTIVE SYSTEMS: DESIGN, SPECIFICATION, AND VERIFICATION	Distributed Cognition is growing in popularity as a way of reasoning about group working and the design of artefacts within work systems. DiCoT (Distributed Cognition for Teamwork) is a methodology and representational system we are developing to support distributed cognition analysis of small team working. It draws on ideas from Contextual Design, but re-orients them towards the principles that are central to Distributed Cognition. When used to reason about possible changes to the design of a system, it also draws on Claims Analysis to reason about the likely effects of changes from a Distributed Cognition perspective. The approach has been developed and tested within a large, busy ambulance control centre. It supports reasoning about both existing system design and possible future designs.
401	dynamical	2001	Thelen, E; Schoner, G; Scheier, C; Smith, LB	The dynamics of embodiment: A field theory of infant perseverative reaching	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The overall goal of this target article is to demonstrate a mechanism for an embodied cognition. The particular vehicle is a much-studied, but still widely debated phenomenon seen in 7-12 month-old-infants. In Piaget's classic "A-not-B error," infants who have successfully uncovered a toy at location "A" continue to reach to that location even after they watch the toy hidden in a nearby location "B." Here, we question the traditional explanations of the error as an indicator of infants' concepts of objects or other static mental structures. Instead, we demonstrate that the A-not-B error and its previously puzzling contextual variations can be understood by the coupled dynamics of the ordinary processes of goal-directed actions: looking, planning, reaching, and remembering. We offer a formal dynamic theory and model based on cognitive embodiment that both simulates the known A-not-B effects and offers novel predictions that match new experimental results. The demonstration supports an embodied view by casting the mental events involved in perception, planning, deciding, and remembering in the same analogic dynamic language as that used to describe bodily movement, so that they may be continuously meshed. We maintain that this mesh is a pre-eminently cognitive act of "knowing" not only in infancy but also in everyday activities throughout the life span.
402	dynamical	2007	Reijneveld, JC; Ponten, SC; Berendse, HW; Stam, CJ	The application of graph theoretical analysis to complex networks in the brain	CLINICAL NEUROPHYSIOLOGY	Considering the brain as a complex network of interacting dynamical systems offers new insights into higher level brain processes such as memory, planning, and abstract reasoning as well as various types of brain pathophysiology. This viewpoint provides the opportunity to apply new insights in network sciences, such as the discovery of small world and scale free networks, to data on anatomical and functional connectivity in the brain. In this review we start with some background knowledge on the history and recent advances in network theories in general. We emphasize the correlation between the structural properties of networks and the dynamics of these networks. We subsequently demonstrate through evidence from computational studies, in vivo experiments, and functional MRI, EEG and MEG studies in humans, that both the functional and anatomical connectivity of the healthy brain have many features of a small world network, but only to a limited extent of a scale free network. The small world structure of neural networks is hypothesized to reflect an optimal configuration associated with rapid synchronization and information transfer, minimal wiring costs, resilience to certain types of damage, as well as a balance between local processing and global integration. Eventually, we review the current knowledge on the effects of focal and diffuse brain disease on neural network characteristics, and demonstrate increasing evidence that both cognitive and psychiatric disturbances, as well as risk of epileptic seizures, are correlated with (changes in) functional network architectural features. 2007 International Federation of Clinical Neurophysiology. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
403	dynamical	2000	Beer, RD	Dynamical approaches to cognitive science	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Dynamical ideas are beginning to have a major impact on cognitive science, from foundational debates to daily practice. In this article, I review three contrasting examples of work in this area that address the lexical and grammatical structure of language, Piaget's classic "A-not-B' error, and active categorical perception in an embodied, situated agent. From these three examples, I then attempt to articulate the major differences between dynamical approaches and more traditional symbolic and connectionist approaches. Although the three models reviewed here vary considerable in their details, they share a focus on the unfolding trajectory of a system's state and the internal and external forces that shape this trajectory, rather than the representational content of its constituent states or the underlying physical mechanism that instantiate the dynamics. In some work, this dynamical viewpoint is augmented with a situated and embodied perspective on cognition, forming a promising unified theoretical framework for cognitive science broadly construed.
404	dynamical	1998	van Gelder, T	The dynamical hypothesis in cognitive science	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	According to the dominant computational approach in cognitive science, cognitive agents are digital computers; according to the alternative approach, they are dynamical systems. This target article attempts to articulate and support the dynamical hypothesis. The dynamical hypothesis has two major components: the nature hypothesis (cognitive agents are dynamical systems) and the knowledge hypothesis (cognitive agents can be understood dynamically). A wide range of objections to this hypothesis can be rebutted. The conclusion is that cognitive systems may well be dynamical systems, and only sustained empirical research in cognitive science will determine the extent to which that is true.
405	dynamical	2001	Newell, KM; Liu, YT; Mayer-Kress, G	Time scales in motor learning and development	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A theoretical framework based on the concepts and tools of nonlinear dynamical systems is advanced to account for both the persistent and transitory changes traditionally shown for the learning and development of motor skills. The multiple lime scales of change in task outcome over time are interpreted as originating from the system's trajectory on an evolving attractor landscape. Different bifurcations between attractor organizations and transient phenomena can lead to exponential, power law, or S-shaped learning curves. This unified dynamical account of the Functions and time scales in motor learning and development offers several new hypotheses for future research on the nature of change in learning theory.
406	dynamical	2006	Araujo, D; Davids, K; Hristovski, R	The ecological dynamics of decision making in sport	PSYCHOLOGY OF SPORT AND EXERCISE	Objectives: The aim of this position paper is to consider the decision-making process as an integral part of goal-directed behaviour influenced by functional constraints at the scale of the environment-athlete relationship. To achieve this aim we discuss relevant theoretical ideas from ecological psychology, focusing particularly on ecological dynamics, as a contrast to more traditional perspectives on decision-making behaviour. To support the argumentation we briefly describe some recent empirical data from studies of sports that emphasise this alternative. perspective on decision making. We conclude that traditional approaches analyse decisions as if they were not grounded, i.e., expressed behaviourally through actions in performance contexts. It is argued that an ecological approach should analyse affordances or action possibilities, when studying cognition in sport, demanding an integration of theories and ideas from the natural sciences in order to understand concepts like information and intentionality. Conclusion: Decision-making behaviour is best considered at the level of the performer-environment relationship and viewed as emerging from the interactions of individuals with environmental constraints over time towards specific functional goals. (C) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
407	dynamical	2005	Baars, BJ	Global workspace theory of consciousness: toward a cognitive neuroscience of human experience	BOUNDARIES OF CONSCIOUSNESS: NEUROBIOLOGY AND NEUROPATHOLOGY	Global workspace (GW) theory emerged from the cognitive architecture tradition in cognitive science. Newell and co-workers were the first to show the utility of a GW or "blackboard" architecture in a distributed set of knowledge sources, which could cooperatively solve problems that no single constituent could solve alone. The empirical connection with conscious cognition was made by Baars (1988, 2002). GW theory generates explicit predictions for conscious aspects of perception, emotion, motivation, learning, working memory, voluntary control, and self systems in the brain. It has similarities to biological theories such as Neural Darwinism and dynamical theories of brain functioning. Functional brain imaging now shows that conscious cognition is distinctively associated with wide spread of cortical activity, notably toward frontoparietal and medial temporal regions. Unconscious comparison conditions tend to activate only local regions, such as visual projection areas. Frontoparietal hypometabolism is also implicated in unconscious states, including deep sleep, coma, vegetative states, epileptic loss of consciousness, and general anesthesia. These findings are consistent with the GW hypothesis, which is now favored by a number of scientists and philosophers.
408	dynamical	2007	Vernon, D; Metta, G; Sandini, G	A survey of artificial cognitive systems: Implications for the autonomous development of mental capabilities in computational agents	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION	This survey presents an overview of the autonomous development of mental capabilities in computational agents. It does so based on a characterization of cognitive systems as systems which exhibit adaptive, anticipatory, and purposive goal-directed behavior. We present a broad survey of the various paradigms of cognition, addressing cognitivist (physical symbol systems) approaches, emergent systems approaches, encompassing connectionist, dynamical, and enactive systems, and also efforts to combine the two in hybrid systems. We then review several cognitive architectures drawn from these paradigms. In each of these areas, we highlight the implications and attendant problems of adopting a developmental approach, both from phylogenetic and ontogenetic points of view. We conclude with a summary of the key architectural features that systems capable of autonomous development of mental capabilities should exhibit.
409	dynamical	2002	Large, EW; Palmer, C	Perceiving temporal regularity in music	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We address how listeners perceive temporal regularity in music performances, which are rich in temporal irregularities. A computational model is described in which a small system of internal self-sustained oscillations, operating at different periods with specific phase and period relations, entrains to the rhythms of music performances. Based on temporal expectancies embodied by the oscillations, the model predicts the categorization of temporally changing event intervals into discrete metrical categories, as well as the perceptual salience of deviations from these categories. The model's predictions are tested in two experiments using piano performances of the same music with different phrase structure interpretations (Experiment 1) or different melodic interpretations (Experiment 2). The model successfully tracked temporal regularity amidst the temporal fluctuations found in the performances. The model's sensitivity to performed deviations from its temporal expectations compared favorably with the per-formers' structural (phrasal and melodic) intentions. Furthermore, the model tracked normal performances (with increased temporal variability) better than performances in which temporal fluctuations associated with individual voices were removed (with decreased variability). The small, systematic temporal irregularities characteristic of human performances (chord asynchronies) improved tracking, but randomly generated temporal irregularities did not. These findings suggest that perception of temporal regularity in complex musical sequences is based on temporal expectancies that adapt in response to temporally fluctuating input. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
410	dynamical	2010	Barsalou, LW	Grounded Cognition: Past, Present, and Future	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Thirty years ago, grounded cognition had roots in philosophy, perception, cognitive linguistics, psycholinguistics, cognitive psychology, and cognitive neuropsychology. During the next 20 years, grounded cognition continued developing in these areas, and it also took new forms in robotics, cognitive ecology, cognitive neuroscience, and developmental psychology. In the past 10 years, research on grounded cognition has grown rapidly, especially in cognitive neuroscience, social neuroscience, cognitive psychology, social psychology, and developmental psychology. Currently, grounded cognition appears to be achieving increased acceptance throughout cognitive science, shifting from relatively minor status to increasing importance. Nevertheless, researchers wonder whether grounded mechanisms lie at the heart of the cognitive system or are peripheral to classic symbolic mechanisms. Although grounded cognition is currently dominated by demonstration experiments in the absence of well-developed theories, the area is likely to become increasingly theory driven over the next 30 years. Another likely development is the increased incorporation of grounding mechanisms into cognitive architectures and into accounts of classic cognitive phenomena. As this incorporation occurs, much functionality of these architectures and phenomena is likely to remain, along with many original mechanisms. Future theories of grounded cognition are likely to be heavily influenced by both cognitive neuroscience and social neuroscience, and also by developmental science and robotics. Aspects from the three major perspectives in cognitive science-classic symbolic architectures, statistical/dynamical systems, and grounded cognition-will probably be integrated increasingly in future theories, each capturing indispensable aspects of intelligence.
411	dynamical	2010	McClelland, JL; Botvinick, MM; Noelle, DC; Plaut, DC; Rogers, TT; Seidenberg, MS; Smith, LB	Letting structure emerge: connectionist and dynamical systems approaches to cognition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Connectionist and dynamical systems approaches explain human thought, language and behavior in terms of the emergent consequences of a large number of simple noncognitive processes. We view the entities that serve as the basis for structured probabilistic approaches as abstractions that are occasionally useful but often misleading: they have no real basis in the actual processes that give rise to linguistic and cognitive abilities or to the development of these abilities. Although structured probabilistic approaches can be useful in determining what would be optimal under certain assumptions, we propose that connectionist, dynamical systems, and related approaches, which focus on explaining the mechanisms that give rise to cognition, will be essential in achieving a full understanding of cognition and development.
412	dynamical	2011	Freeman, JB; Ambady, N	A Dynamic Interactive Theory of Person Construal	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A dynamic interactive theory of person construal is proposed. It assumes that the perception of other people is accomplished by a dynamical. system involving continuous interaction between social categories, stereotypes, high-level cognitive states, and the low-level processing of facial, vocal, and bodily cues. This system permits lower-level sensory perception and higher-order social cognition to dynamically coordinate across multiple interactive levels of processing to give rise to stable person construals. A recurrent connectionist model of this system is described, which accounts for major findings on (a) partial parallel activation and dynamic competition in categorization and stereotyping, (b) top-down influences of high-level cognitive stales and stereotype activations on categorization, (c) bottom-up category interactions due to shared perceptual features, and (d) contextual and cross-modal effects on categorization. The system's probabilistic and continuously evolving activation states permit multiple construals to be flexibly active in parallel. These activation states are also able to be tightly yoked to ongoing changes in external perceptual cues and to ongoing changes in high-level cognitive states. The implications of a rapidly adaptive, dynamic, and interactive person construal system are discussed.
413	dynamical	2006	Marsh, KL; Richardson, MJ; Baron, RM; Schmidt, RC	Contrasting approaches to perceiving and acting with others	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	How and why the presence of a person directly affects the perception and action of another person is a phenomenon that has been approached in a limited and piecemeal fashion within psychology. This kind of diffuse strategy has failed to capture the jointness of perception and action within and between people. In contradistinction, the authors offer a perspective that retains both integrally social features (e.g., involves interaction) and yet adequately exploits the current state of knowledge regarding the ecological properties of perception-action, while at the same time drawing on aspects of dynamic systems theory. In this article the authors review the best attempts to examine how one individual affects another's perceptions and actions in the emergence of a social unit of action. Two important approaches, the individual-level and cognitive dynamics approaches, have yielded insights that derive in significant degree from principles of ecological psychology and/or dynamical systems theory. Prototypic of the individual-level approach is a focus on what can be perceived by coactors with the aim of uncovering how the dispositional qualities (affordances) of another person are informationally specified during social interaction. In contrast, the cognitive dynamics approach simulates dynamical characteristics of cognition and psychological influence with the aim of uncovering how cooperative interaction emerges out of its component parts. The authors argue that these approaches involve, respectively, insufficient mutuality and insufficient embodiment. Consequently, a social synergy perspective is discussed that approaches the problem of socially cooperative interaction at the relational, nonreductive level, using novel methods to examine how social perception and action emerge through self-organizing processes.
414	dynamical	2009	Fuchs, T; De Jaegher, H	Enactive intersubjectivity: Participatory sense-making and mutual incorporation	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Current theories of social cognition are mainly based on a representationalist view. Moreover, they focus on a rather sophisticated and limited aspect of understanding others, i.e. on how we predict and explain others' behaviours through representing their mental states. Research into the 'social brain' has also favoured a third-person paradigm of social cognition as a passive observation of others' behaviour, attributing it to an inferential, simulative or projective process in the individual brain. In this paper, we present a concept of social understanding as an ongoing, dynamical process of participatory sense-making and mutual incorporation. This process may be described (1) from a dynamical agentive systems point of view as an interaction and coordination of two embodied agents; (2) from a phenomenological approach as a mutual incorporation, i.e. a process in which the lived bodies of both participants extend and form a common intercorporality. Intersubjectivity, it is argued, is not a solitary task of deciphering or simulating the movements of others but means entering a process of embodied interaction and generating common meaning through it. This approach will be further illustrated by an analysis of primary dyadic interaction in early childhood.
415	dynamical	2005	Harvey, I; Di Paolo, E; Wood, R; Quinn, M; Tuci, E	Evolutionary robotics: A new scientific tool for studying cognition	ARTIFICIAL LIFE	We survey developments in artificial neural networks, in behavior-based robotics, and in evolutionary algorithms that set the stage for evolutionary robotics (ER) in the 1990s. We examine the motivations for using ER as a scientific tool for studying minimal models of cognition, with the advantage of being capable of generating integrated sensorimotor systems with minimal (or controllable) prejudices. These systems must act as a whole in close coupling with their environments, which is an essential aspect of real cognition that is often either bypassed or modeled poorly in other disciplines. We demonstrate with three example studies: homeostasis under visual inversion, the origins of learning, and the ontogenetic acquisition of entrainment.
416	dynamical	2000	Large, EW	On synchronizing movements to music	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	How do people synchronize movement patterns with music? Most likely, when people listen to a musical rhythm, they perceive a bear and a metrical structure in the rhythm, and these perceived patterns enable coordination with the music. Here, a model of meter perception is proposed in which a musical stimulus provides input to a pattern-forming dynamical system. Under rhythmic stimulation, the system undergoes bifurcations that correspond to the birth of self-sustained oscillations and the formation of temporally structured patterns of oscillations. The resulting patterns dynamically embody the perception of beat and meter, and they are stable in the sense that they can persist in the in the face of rhythmic conflict. The performance of the model is compared with the results of a recent beat induction study (J. Snyder, C.L. Krumhansl, Tapping to ragtime: Cues to pulse-finding. Music Perception, 2000 (under review)) in which musicians tapped along with musical rhythms. The network closely matched human performance for natural musical signals and showed a similar pattern of breakdowns as the input degraded. The theoretical implications of these findings are considered. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
417	dynamical	2009	Shockley, K; Richardson, DC; Dale, R	Conversation and Coordinative Structures	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	People coordinate body postures and gaze patterns during conversation. We review literature showing that (1) action embodies cognition, (2) postural coordination emerges spontaneously when two people converse, (3) gaze patterns influence postural coordination, (4) gaze coordination is a function of common ground knowledge and visual information that conversants believe they share, and (5) gaze coordination is causally related to mutual understanding. We then consider how coordination, generally, can be understood as temporarily coupled neuromuscular components that function as a collective unit known as a coordinative structure in the motor control literature. We speculate that the coordination of gaze and body sway found in conversation may be understood as a cross-person coordinative structure that embodies the goals of the joint action system.
418	dynamical	2006	Spivey, MJ; Dale, R	Continuous dynamics in real-time cognition	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Real-time cognition is best described not as a sequence of logical operations performed on discrete symbols but as a continuously changing pattern of neuronal activity. The continuity in these dynamics indicates that, in between describable states of mind, mental activity does not lend itself to the linguistic labels relied on by much of psychology. We discuss eye-tracking and mouse-tracking evidence for this temporal continuity and provide geometric visualizations of mental activity, depicting it as a continuous trajectory through a state space (a multidimensional space in which locations correspond to mental states). When the state of the system travels toward a frequently visited region of that space, the destination may constitute recognition of a particular word or a particular object; but on the way there, the majority of the mental trajectory is in intermediate regions of that space, revealing graded mixtures of mental states.
419	dynamical	2013	Wilson, AD; Golonka, S	Embodied cognition is not what you think it is	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The most exciting hypothesis in cognitive science right now is the theory that cognition is embodied. Like all good ideas in cognitive science, however, embodiment immediately came to mean six different things. The most common definitions involve the straightforward claim that "states of the body modify states of the mind." However, the implications of embodiment are actually much more radical than this. If cognition can span the brain, body, and the environment, then the "states of mind" of disembodied cognitive science won't exist to be modified. Cognition will instead be an extended system assembled from a broad array of resources. Taking embodiment seriously therefore requires both new methods and theory. Here we outline four key steps that research programs should follow in order to fully engage with the implications of embodiment. The first step is to conduct a task analysis, which characterizes from a first person perspective the specific task that a perceiving-acting cognitive agent is faced with. The second step is to identify the task-relevant resources the agent has access to in order to solve the task. These resources can span brain, body, and environment. The third step is to identify how the agent can assemble these resources into a system capable of solving the problem at hand. The last step is to test the agent's performance to confirm that agent is actually using the solution identified in step 3. We explore these steps in more detail with reference to two useful examples (the outfielder problem and the A-not-B error), and introduce how to apply this analysis to the thorny question of language use. Embodied cognition is more than we think it is, and we have the tools we need to realize its full potential.
420	dynamical	2011	Freyer, F; Roberts, JA; Becker, R; Robinson, PA; Ritter, P; Breakspear, M	Biophysical Mechanisms of Multistability in Resting-State Cortical Rhythms	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	The human alpha (8-12 Hz) rhythm is one of the most prominent, robust, and widely studied attributes of ongoing cortical activity. Contrary to the prevalent notion that it simply "waxes and wanes," spontaneous alpha activity bursts erratically between two distinct modes of activity. We now establish a mechanism for this multistable phenomenon in resting-state cortical recordings by characterizing the complex dynamics of a biophysical model of macroscopic corticothalamic activity. This is achieved by studying the predicted activity of cortical and thalamic neuronal populations in this model as a function of its dynamic stability and the role of nonspecific synaptic noise. We hence find that fluctuating noisy inputs into thalamic neurons elicit spontaneous bursts between low-and high-amplitude alpha oscillations when the system is near a particular type of dynamical instability, namely a subcritical Hopf bifurcation. When the postsynaptic potentials associated with these noisy inputs are modulated by cortical feedback, the SD of power within each of these modes scale in proportion to their mean, showing remarkable concordance with empirical data. Our state-dependent corticothalamic model hence exhibits multistability and scale-invariant fluctuations-key features of resting-state cortical activity and indeed, of human perception, cognition, and behavior-thus providing a unified account of these apparently divergent phenomena.
421	dynamical	1999	Pressing, J	The referential dynamics of cognition and action	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Referential behavior theory (RBT), a general dynamical approach to psychological and related systems that operate through a control or referencing process, is introduced. A review of existing evidence shows that this approach can apply to a variety of human and animal systems and tasks, whether the framing language is that of homeostasis, error correction, coupled biological oscillators, motor control, adaptive change, cognitive goal-setting, evaluation and refinement, or neural network learning. Thus, RBT provides a path for reconciliation of dynamical and information-processing accounts of action and cognition. RBT generates a class of mathematical equations, one of which, the discrete control equation (DCE), forms the basis for more detailed investigation. The primary focus here is on the application of the DCE to the temporal structure of regular human movement. Given certain conditions, the equation produces various standard (and new, more general) forms of the circle map class that governs relative phase in motor coordination and, hence, generates well-documented nonlinear ''dynamical" motor phenomena such as behavioral attractors, phase transitions, critical slowing, and so on. Under certain other conditions, the DCE produces the linear stochastic timing models often associated with motor program traditions, accommodating hierarchical effects, open- and closed-loop conditions, and unilimb and multilimb movement A number of new predictions are identified from the approach, and a review of experimental evidence gives support for the claim that the current formulation is an integrated generalization and improvement of several aspects of existing motor program and dynamic approaches.
422	dynamical	2008	Freeman, JB; Ambady, N; Rule, NO; Johnson, KL	Will a Category Cue Attract You? Motor Output Reveals Dynamic Competition Across Person Construal	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	People use social categories to perceive others. extracting category cues to glean membership. Growing evidence for continuous dynamics in real-time cognition suggests. contrary to prevailing social psychological accounts. that person construal may involve dynamic competition between simultaneously active representations. To test this, the authors examined social categorization in real-time by streaming the x, y coordinates of hand movements as participants categorized typical and atypical faces by sex. Though judgments of atypical targets were largely accurate. online motor Output exhibited l Continuous spatial attraction toward the opposite sex category. indicating dynamic competition between multiple social category alternatives. The authors offer a dynamic continuity account of social categorization and provide converging evidence across categorizations of real male and female faces (containing a typical or in atypical sex-specifying cue) and categorizations of computer-generated male and female faces (with Subtly morphed sex-typical or sex-atypical features). In 3 studies, online motor Output revealed continuous dynamics underlying Person construal. ill which multiple simultaneously and partially active category representations gradually cascade into social categorical judgments. Such evidence is challenging for discrete stage-based accounts.
423	dynamical	2009	McClelland, JL	The Place of Modeling in Cognitive Science	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	I consider the role of cognitive modeling in cognitive science. Modeling, and the computers that enable it, are central to the field, but the role of modeling is often misunderstood. Models are not intended to capture fully the processes they attempt to elucidate. Rather, they are explorations of ideas about the nature of cognitive processes. In these explorations, simplification is essential-through simplification, the implications of the central ideas become more transparent. This is not to say that simplification has no downsides; it does, and these are discussed. I then consider several contemporary frameworks for cognitive modeling, stressing the idea that each framework is useful in its own particular ways. Increases in computer power (by a factor of about 4 million) since 1958 have enabled new modeling paradigms to emerge, but these also depend on new ways of thinking. Will new paradigms emerge again with the next 1,000-fold increase?
424	dynamical	1997	Clark, A	The dynamical challenge	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Recent studies such as Thelen and Smith (1994), Kelso, (1995), Van Gelder, (1995), Beer, (1995), and others have presented a forceful case for a dynamical systems approach to understanding cognition and adaptive behavior. These studies call into question some foundational assumptions concerning the nature of cognitive scientific explanation and (in particular) the role of notions such as internal representation and computation. These are exciting and important challenges. But they must be handled with care. It is all too easy, in this debate, to lose sight of the explanatorily important issues and to talk at cross-purposes, courtesy of the (surprisingly) various ways in which different theorists often conceive the key terms. The primary goal of the present paper is thus a modest one: to begin to clarify just what is at issue and to highlight some of the most central and pressing concerns. In so doing, we may hope to develop a constructive framework for future debate. In addition, I try to open up a space of intermediate options-ways in which dynamical and representational/computational understandings may sometimes afford complementary (rather than competing) perspectives on adaptive success.
425	dynamical	2008	Schoner, G	Dynamical Systems Approaches to Cognition	CAMBRIDGE HANDBOOK OF COMPUTATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY	0
426	dynamical	2003	Gallese, V; Metzinger, T	Motor ontology: the representational reality of goals, actions and selves	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	The representational dynamics of the brain is a subsymbolic process, and it has to be conceived as an "agent-free" type of dynamical self-organization. However, in generating a coherent internal world-model, the brain decomposes target space in a certain way. In doing so, it defines an "ontology": to have an ontology is to interpret a world. In this paper we argue that the brain, viewed as a representational system aimed at interpreting the world, possesses an ontology too. It decomposes target space in a way that exhibits certain invariances, which in turn are functionally significant. A challenge for empirical research is to determine which are the functional regularities guiding this decomposition process. What are the explicit and implicit assumptions about the structure of reality, which at the same time shape the causal profile of the brain's motor output and the representational deep structure of the conscious mind arising from it ( its "phenomenal output")? How do they constrain high-level phenomena like conscious experience, the emergence of a first-person perspective, or social cognition? By reviewing a series of neuroscientific results, we focus on the contribution the motor system makes to this process. As it turns out, the motor system constructs goals, actions, and intending selves as basic constituents of the world it interprets. It does so by assigning a single, unified causal role to them. Empirical evidence now clearly shows how the brain actually codes movements and action goals in terms of multimodal representations of organism-object relations. Under a representationalist analysis, this process can be interpreted as an internal representation of the intentionality relation itself. We try to show how such a more complex form of representational content, once it is in place, can later function as the building block for social cognition and a for more complex, consciously experienced representation of the first-person perspective as well. The motor system may therefore play a decisive role in understanding how the functional ontology of the human brain could be gradually extended into the subjective and social domains.
427	dynamical	2014	Fusaroli, R; Raczaszek-Leonardi, J; Tylen, K	Dialog as interpersonal synergy	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	What is the proper unit of analysis in the psycholinguistics of dialog? While classical approaches are largely based on models of individual linguistic processing, recent advances stress the social coordinative nature of dialog. In the influential interactive alignment model, dialogue is thus approached as the progressive entrainment of interlocutors' linguistic behaviors toward the alignment of situation models. Still, the driving mechanisms are attributed to individual cognition in the form of automatic structural priming. Challenging these ideas, we outline a dynamical framework for studying dialog based on the notion of interpersonal synergy. Crucial to this synergetic model is the emphasis on dialog as an emergent, self-organizing, interpersonal system capable of functional coordination. A consequence of this model is that linguistic processes cannot be reduced to the workings of individual cognitive systems but must be approached also at the interpersonal level. From the synergy model follows a number of new predictions: beyond simple synchrony, good dialog affords complementary dynamics, constrained by contextual sensitivity and functional specificity. We substantiate our arguments by reference to recent empirical studies supporting the idea of dialog as interpersonal synergy. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
428	dynamical	2000	Singer, RN	Performance and human factors: considerations about cognition and attention for self-paced and externally-paced events	ERGONOMICS	The cognitive psychology school of thought has spawned models of sequential stages or phases of information processing associated with various tasks. It has encouraged the study of cognitions and attention as related to learning, performance and high levels of achievement in goal-directed complex activities in which movement is the medium of expression. Although more recently proposed dynamical systems models challenge the simplicity of this approach, there is little doubt that the ability to learn as well as to excel in performing movement skills depends to a great degree on the effective self-regulation of cognitive processes in a variety of situations. What to think about (or not think about) prior to, during and even after an event can have great consequences on present and subsequent performance. Relevant externally-provided and self-generated strategies should enable these processes to function at an optimal level, and are the subject of an increasing amount of research. For such purposes, it is convenient to categorize events as self-paced (closed) and externally-paced (open). Examples of both types of events exist in sport as well as in various occupations and recreational activities, with different information processing demands associated with each one. Any breakdown in a particular stage of processing will potentially lead to poorer performance. Special training techniques and strategies are evolving from the cognitive and psychophysiological research literature that might improve the level of functioning at each stage for either self-paced or externally-paced skills.
429	dynamical	2009	Stephen, DG; Dixon, JA; Isenhower, RW	Dynamics of Representational Change: Entropy, Action, and Cognition	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Explaining how the cognitive system can create new structures has been a major challenge for cognitive science. Self-organization from the theory of nonlinear dynamics offers an account of this remarkable phenomenon. Two studies provide an initial test of the hypothesis that the emergence of new cognitive structure follows the same universal principles as emergence in other domains (e.g., fluids, lasers). In both studies, participants initially solved gear-system problems by manually tracing the force across a system of gears. Subsequently, they discovered that the gears form an alternating sequence, thereby demonstrating a new cognitive structure. In both studies, dynamical analyses of action during problem solving predicted the spontaneous emergence of the new cognitive structure. Study I showed that a peak in entropy, followed by negentropy, key indicators of self-organization, predicted discovery of alternation. Study 2 replicated these effects, and showed that increasing environmental entropy accelerated discovery, a classic prediction from dynamics. Additional analyses based on the relationship between phase transitions and power-law behavior provide converging evidence. The studies provide an initial demonstration of the emergence of cognitive structure through self-organization.
430	dynamical	2009	Araujo, D; Davids, K	Ecological approaches to cognition and action in sport and exercise: Ask not only what you do, but where you do it	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	In recent decades, concepts and ideas from James J. Gibson's theory of direct perception in ecological psychology have been applied to the study of how perception and action regulate sport performance. This article examines the influence of different streams of thought in ecological psychology for studying cognition and action in The diverse behavioural contexts of sport and exercise. In discussing the origins of ecological psychology, it can be concluded that psychologists Such as Lewin, and to some extent Heider, provided the initial impetus for the development of key ideas. We argue that The papers in this special issue clarify, that the different schools of thinking in ecological psychology have much to contribute to theoretical and practical developments in sport and exercise psychology For example, Gibson emphasized and formalized how the individual is coupled with the environment, Brunswik raised the issue of the ontology of probability in human behaviour and the problem of representative design for experimental task constraints; Barker looked carefully into extra-individual behavioural contexts and Bronfenbrenner presented insights pertinent to the relations between behaviour contexts, and macro influences on behaviour In this overview, we highlight essential issues from the main schools of thought of relevance to the contexts of sport and exercise, and we consider some potential theoretical linkages with dynamical systems theory.
431	dynamical	2009	Vogeley, K; Roepstorff, A	Contextualising culture and social cognition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Cognitive neurosciencists have recently begun to study self-consiousness and intersubjectivity but have not yet taken into account adequately the influence of culture on these phenomena. Here, we argue against the naive inclusion of 'culture' as an additional independent factor that can be empirically addressed adequately merely by considering mother tongue or nationality. Instead, we propose that culture needs to be considered as a dynamical system of individuals; that culture is in continous dialectic interaction and exchange with the individuals that constitute it; and that cultural classifications feed back into social practices and identity processes, hence exhibiting a 'looping effect'. These proposals have important implications for the development of cultural neuroscience.
432	dynamical	2005	Paulin, MG	Evolution of the cerebellum as a neuronal machine for Bayesian state estimation	JOURNAL OF NEURAL ENGINEERING	The cerebellum evolved in association with the electric sense and vestibular sense of the earliest vertebrates. Accurate information provided by these sensory systems would have been essential for precise control of orienting behavior in predation. A simple model shows that individual spikes in electrosensory primary afferent neurons can be interpreted as measurements of prey location. Using this result, I construct a computational neural model in which the spatial distribution of spikes in a secondary electrosensory map forms a Monte Carlo approximation to the Bayesian posterior distribution of prey locations given the sense data. The neural circuit that emerges naturally to perform this task resembles the cerebellar-like hindbrain electrosensory filtering circuitry of sharks and other electrosensory vertebrates. The optimal filtering mechanism can be extended to handle dynamical targets observed from a dynamical platform; that is, to construct an optimal dynamical state estimator using spiking neurons. This may provide a generic model of cerebellar computation. Vertebrate motion-sensing neurons have specific fractional-order dynamical characteristics that allow Bayesian state estimators to be implemented elegantly and efficiently, using simple operations with asynchronous pulses, i.e. spikes. The computational neural models described in this paper represent a novel kind of particle filter, using spikes as particles. The models are specific and make testable predictions about computational mechanisms in cerebellar circuitry, while providing a plausible explanation of cerebellar contributions to aspects of motor control, perception and cognition.
433	dynamical	2003	Grush, R	In Defense of some 'Cartesian' assumptions concerning the brain and its operation	BIOLOGY & PHILOSOPHY	I argue against a growing radical trend in current theoretical cognitive science that moves from the premises of embedded cognition, embodied cognition, dynamical systems theory and/or situated robotics to conclusions either to the effect that the mind is not in the brain or that cognition does not require representation, or both. I unearth the considerations at the foundation of this view: Haugeland's bandwidth-component argument to the effect that the brain is not a component in cognitive activity, and arguments inspired by dynamical systems theory and situated robotics to the effect that cognitive activity does not involve representations. Both of these strands depend not only on a shift of emphasis from higher cognitive functions to things like sensorimotor processes, but also depend on a certain understanding of how sensorimotor processes are implemented - as closed-loop control systems. I describe a much more sophisticated model of sensorimotor processing that is not only more powerful and robust than simple closed-loop control, but for which there is great evidence that it is implemented in the nervous system. The is the emulation theory of representation, according to which the brain constructs inner dynamical models, or emulators, of the body and environment which are used in parallel with the body and environment to enhance motor control and perception and to provide faster feedback during motor processes, and can be run off-line to produce imagery and evaluate sensorimotor counterfactuals. I then show that the emulation framework is immune to the radical arguments, and makes apparent why the brain is a component in the cognitive activity, and exactly what the representations are in sensorimotor control.
434	dynamical	2009	Ziemke, T; Lowe, R	On the Role of Emotion in Embodied Cognitive Architectures: From Organisms to Robots	COGNITIVE COMPUTATION	The computational modeling of emotion has been an area of growing interest in cognitive robotics research in recent years, but also a source of contention regarding how to conceive of emotion and how to model it. In this paper, emotion is characterized as (a) closely connected to embodied cognition, (b) grounded in homeostatic bodily regulation, and (c) a powerful organizational principle-affective modulation of behavioral and cognitive mechanisms-that is 'useful' in both biological brains and robotic cognitive architectures. We elaborate how emotion theories and models centered on core neurological structures in the mammalian brain, and inspired by embodied, dynamical, and enactive approaches in cognitive science, may impact on computational and robotic modeling. In light of the theoretical discussion, work in progress on the development of an embodied cognitive-affective architecture for robots is presented, incorporating aspects of the theories discussed.
435	dynamical	2009	Stephen, DG; Boncoddo, RA; Magnuson, JS; Dixon, JA	The dynamics of insight: Mathematical discovery as a phase transition	MEMORY & COGNITION	In recent work in cognitive science, it has been proposed that cognition is a self-organizing, dynamical system. However, capturing the real-time dynamics of cognition has been a formidable challenge. Furthermore, it has been unclear whether dynamics could effectively address the emergence of abstract concepts (e.g., language, mathematics). Here, we provide evidence that a quintessentially cognitive phenomenon-the spontaneous discovery of a mathematical relation-emerges through self-organization. Participants solved a series of gear-system problems while we tracked their eye movements. They initially solved the problems by manually simulating the forces of the gears but then spontaneously discovered a mathematical solution. We show that the discovery of the mathematical relation was predicted by changes in entropy and changes in power-law behavior, two hallmarks of phase transitions. Thus, the present study demonstrates the emergence of higher order cognitive phenomena through the nonlinear dynamics of self-organization.
436	dynamical	2007	Hodges, BH	Good prospects: ecological and social perspectives on conforming, creating, and caring in conversation	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Ecological approaches (e.g. [Gibson, J.J., 1979. The Ecological Approach to Visual Perception. Houghton-Mifflin, Boston]) to psychology and language are selectively reviewed, focusing on social learning. Is social learning (e.g., acquiring language) a matter of conformity [Tomasello, M., 2006. Acquiring linguistic constructions. In: D. Kuhn, R.S. Siegler, W. Damon, R.M. Lerner (Eds.), Handbook of Child Psychology, Cognition, Perception, and Language, sixth ed., vol. 2., Wiley, Hoboken, NJ, pp. 255-298], creativity [Chomsky, N. 1965. Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA], or something else? Ecological approaches [Reed, E.S., 1996. Encountering the World: Toward an Ecological Psychology. Oxford University Press, Oxford; Hodges, B.H., Baron, R.M. 1992. Values as constraints on affordances: perceiving and acting properly. Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour 22, 263-294] put the focus on values. Reed's account highlights the collective appropriation of affordances, the precocious perception and enactment of "unfilled meanings," and children's becoming persons through the active structuring of their environment (e.g., gestural games, story-telling). Hodges and Baron's account of values as multiple, heterarchical, dynamical, and legitimating constraints on actions is applied to cases of pragmatic rule violations, particularly Hodges and Geyer's [Hodges, B.H., Geyer, A.L., 2006. A nonconformist account of the Asch experiments: Values, pragmatics, and moral dilemmas. Personality and Social Psychology Review 10, 2-19] reinterpretation of Asch's [Asch, S.E., 1956. Studies of independence and conformity: I. A minority of one against a unanimous majority. Psychological Monographs 70, (9) (Whole No. 416)] influential experiments on social influence and perception. These ecological, social, and values-realizing accounts suggest that conversations are about seeking good prospects, caring for others and self, and inviting responsible action. The possibility of language as a perceptual system [Gibson, J.J., 1966. The Senses Considered as Perceptual Systems. Houghton-Mifflin, Boston] for exploring dialogical arrays, and an action system [Reed, E.S., 1982. An outline of a theory of action systems. Journal of Motor Behavior 14, 97-134] for coordinating diverse space-time scales is considered. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
437	dynamical	2004	Bourgine, P; Stewart, J	Autopoiesis and cognition	ARTIFICIAL LIFE	This article revisits the concept of autopoiesis and examines its relation to cognition and life. We present a mathematical model of a 3D tesselation automaton, considered as a minimal example of autopoiesis. This leads us to a thesis T1: "An autopoietic system can be described as a random dynamical system, which is defined only within its organized autopoietic domain." We propose a modified definition of autopoiesis: "An autopoietic system is a network of processes that produces the components that reproduce the network, and that also regulates the boundary conditions necessary for its ongoing existence as a network." We also propose a definition of cognition: "A system is cognitive if and only if sensory inputs serve to trigger actions in a specific way, so as to satisfy a viability constraint." It follows from these definitions that the concepts of autopoiesis and cognition, although deeply related in their connection with the regulation of the boundary conditions of the system, are not immediately identical: a system can be autopoietic without being cognitive, and cognitive without being autopoietic. Finally, we propose a thesis T2: "A system that is both autopoietic and cognitive is a living system."
438	dynamical	1996	Eliasmith, C	The third contender: A critical examination of the dynamicist theory of cognition	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In a recent series of publications, dynamicist researchers have proposed a new conception of cognitive functioning. This conception is intended to replace the currently dominant theories of connectionism and symbolicism. The dynamicist approach to cognitive modeling employs concepts developed in the mathematical field of dynamical systems theory. They claim that cognitive models should be embedded, low-dimensional, complex, described by coupled differential equations, and non-representational. In this paper I begin with a short description of the dynamicist project and its role as a cognitive theory. Subsequently, I determine the theoretical commitments of dynamicists, critically examine those commitments and discuss current examples of dynamicist models. In conclusion, I determine dynamicism's relation to symbolicism and connectionism and find that the dynamicist goal to establish a new paradigm has yet to be realized.
439	dynamical	2008	Chemero, A; Silberstein, M	After the philosophy of mind: Replacing scholasticism with science	PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE	We provide a taxonomy of the two most important debates in the philosophy of the cognitive and neural sciences. The first debate is over methodological individualism: is the object of the cognitive and neural sciences the brain, the whole animal, or the animal-environment system? The second is over explanatory style: should explanation in cognitive and neural science be reductionist-mechanistic, interlevel mechanistic, or dynamical? After setting out the debates, we discuss the ways in which they are interconnected. Finally, we make some recommendations that we hope will help philosophers interested in the cognitive and neural sciences to avoid dead ends.
440	dynamical	2013	Cooke, NJ; Gorman, JC; Myers, CW; Duran, JL	Interactive Team Cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Cognition in work teams has been predominantly understood and explained in terms of shared cognition with a focus on the similarity of static knowledge structures across individual team members. Inspired by the current zeitgeist in cognitive science, as well as by empirical data and pragmatic concerns, we offer an alternative theory of team cognition. Interactive Team Cognition (ITC) theory posits that (1) team cognition is an activity, not a property or a product; (2) team cognition should be measured and studied at the team level; and (3) team cognition is inextricably tied to context. There are implications of ITC for theory building, modeling, measurement, and applications that make teams more effective performers.
441	dynamical	2011	Chow, JY; Davids, K; Hristovski, R; Araujo, D; Passos, P	Nonlinear pedagogy: Learning design for self-organizing neurobiological systems	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In this paper, key concepts in ecological psychology and nonlinear dynamics exemplify how learning design can be shaped by ideas of self-organization, meta-stability and self-organized criticality in complex neurobiological systems. Through interactions with specific ecological constraints in learning environments, cognition, decision making and action emerge. An important design strategy is the use of different types of noise to channel the learning process into meta-stable regions of the "learner-learning environment" system to encourage adaptive behaviors. Here learners can be exposed to many functional and creative performance solutions during training. Data from studies in the performance context of sports are used to illustrate how these theoretical ideas can underpin learning design. Based on these insights a nonlinear pedagogy is proposed in which the role of coaches or trainers alters from a more traditional, prescriptive stance to the mode of manipulating key interacting task constraints including information, space and equipment to facilitate learning. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
442	dynamical	2007	Diamond, LM	A Dynamical Systems Approach to the Development and Expression of Female Same-Sex Sexuality	PERSPECTIVES ON PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Researchers have documented substantial variability in the development and expression of same-sex sexuality, especially among women, posing challenges to traditional linear developmental models. In this article, I argue for a new approach to conceptualizing the development and expression of female same-sex sexuality over the life course, based in dynamical systems theory. Dynamical systems models seek to explain how complex patterns emerge, stabilize, change, and restabilize over time. Although originally developed by mathematicians and physicists to model complex physical phenomena in the natural world, they have increasingly been applied to social-behavioral phenomena, ranging from motor development to cognition to language. I demonstrate the utility of this approach for modeling change over time in female same-sex sexuality, reviewing extant published research and also introducing data collected from an ongoing, 10-year longitudinal study of young nonheterosexual women. I provide evidence that female same-sex sexuality demonstrates the emblematic features of a dynamical system: nonlinear change over time, spontaneous emergence of novel forms, and periodic reorganizations and phase transitions within the overall system. I highlight the specific contribution of a dynamical systems perspective for understanding such phenomena and suggest directions for future study.
443	dynamical	2006	Barandiaran, X; Moreno, A	On what makes certain dynamical systems cognitive: A minimally cognitive organization program	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Dynamicism has provided cognitive science with important tools to understand some aspects of "how cognitive agents work" but the issue of "what makes something cognitive" has not been sufficiently addressed yet and, we argue, the former will never be complete without the latter. Behavioristic characterizations of cognitive properties are criticized in favor of an organizational approach focused on the internal dynamic relationships that constitute cognitive systems. A definition of cognition as adaptive-autonomy in the embodied and situated neurodynamic domain is provided: the compensatory regulation of a web of stability dependencies between sensorimotor structures is created and preserved during a historical/developmental process. We highlight the functional role of emotional embodiment: internal bioregulatory processes coupled to the formation and adaptive regulation of neurodynamic autonomy. Finally, we discuss a "minimally cognitive behavior program" in evolutionary simulation modeling suggesting that much is to be learned from a complementary "minimally cognitive organization program".
444	dynamical	2014	Tagliazucchi, E; Carhart-Harris, R; Leech, R; Nutt, D; Chialvo, DR	Enhanced Repertoire of Brain Dynamical States During the Psychedelic Experience	HUMAN BRAIN MAPPING	The study of rapid changes in brain dynamics and functional connectivity (FC) is of increasing interest in neuroimaging. Brain states departing from normal waking consciousness are expected to be accompanied by alterations in the aforementioned dynamics. In particular, the psychedelic experience produced by psilocybin (a substance found in magic mushrooms) is characterized by unconstrained cognition and profound alterations in the perception of time, space and selfhood. Considering the spontaneous and subjective manifestation of these effects, we hypothesize that neural correlates of the psychedelic experience can be found in the dynamics and variability of spontaneous brain activity fluctuations and connectivity, measurable with functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI). Fifteen healthy subjects were scanned before, during and after intravenous infusion of psilocybin and an inert placebo. Blood-Oxygen Level Dependent (BOLD) temporal variability was assessed computing the variance and total spectral power, resulting in increased signal variability bilaterally in the hippocampi and anterior cingulate cortex. Changes in BOLD signal spectral behavior (including spectral scaling exponents) affected exclusively higher brain systems such as the default mode, executive control, and dorsal attention networks. A novel framework enabled us to track different connectivity states explored by the brain during rest. This approach revealed a wider repertoire of connectivity states post-psilocybin than during control conditions. Together, the present results provide a comprehensive account of the effects of psilocybin on dynamical behavior in the human brain at a macroscopic level and may have implications for our understanding of the unconstrained, hyper-associative quality of consciousness in the psychedelic state. Hum Brain Mapp 35:5442-5456, 2014. (c) 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
445	dynamical	2012	Froese, T; Fuchs, T	The extended body: a case study in the neurophenomenology of social interaction	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	There is a growing realization in cognitive science that a theory of embodied intersubjectivity is needed to better account for social cognition. We highlight some challenges that must be addressed by attempts to interpret 'simulation theory' in terms of embodiment, and argue for an alternative approach that integrates phenomenology and dynamical systems theory in a mutually informing manner. Instead of 'simulation' we put forward the concept of the 'extended body', an enactive and phenomenological notion that emphasizes the socially mediated nature of embodiment. To illustrate the explanatory potential of this approach, we replicate an agent-based model of embodied social interaction. An analysis of the model demonstrates that the extended body can be explained in terms of mutual dynamical entanglement: inter-bodily resonance between individuals can give rise to self-sustaining interaction patterns that go beyond the behavioral capacities of isolated individuals by modulating their intra-bodily conditions of behavior generation.
446	dynamical	2011	Rabinovich, MI; Varona, P	Robust transient dynamics and brain functions	FRONTIERS IN COMPUTATIONAL NEUROSCIENCE	In the last few decades several concepts of dynamical systems theory (DST) have guided psychologists, cognitive scientists, and neuroscientists to rethink about sensory motor behavior and embodied cognition. A critical step in the progress of DST application to the brain (supported by modern methods of brain imaging and multi-electrode recording techniques) has been the transfer of its initial success in motor behavior to mental function, i.e., perception, emotion, and cognition. Open questions from research in genetics, ecology, brain sciences, etc., have changed DST itself and lead to the discovery of a new dynamical phenomenon, i.e., reproducible and robust transients that are at the same time sensitive to informational signals. The goal of this review is to describe a new mathematical framework-heteroclinic sequential dynamics-to understand self-organized activity in the brain that can explain certain aspects of robust itinerant behavior. Specifically, we discuss a hierarchy of coarse-grain models of mental dynamics in the form of kinetic equations of modes. These modes compete for resources at three levels: (i) within the same modality, (ii) among different modalities from the same family (like perception), and (iii) among modalities from different families (like emotion and cognition). The analysis of the conditions for robustness, i. e., the structural stability of transient (sequential) dynamics, give us the possibility to explain phenomena like the finite capacity of our sequential working memory-a vital cognitive function-, and to find specific dynamical signatures-different kinds of instabilities-of several brain functions and mental diseases.
447	dynamical	2009	Freeman, WJ; Ahlfors, SP; Menon, V	Combining fMRI with EEG and MEG in order to relate patterns of brain activity to cognition	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PSYCHOPHYSIOLOGY	The common factor that underlies several types of functional brain imaging is the electric current of masses of dendrites. The prodigious demands for the energy that is required to drive the dendritic currents are met by hemodynamic and metabolic responses that are visualized with fMRI and PET techniques. The high current densities in parallel dendritic shafts and the broad distributions of the loop currents outside the dendrites generate both the scalp EEG and the magnetic fields seen in the MEG. The measurements of image intensities and potential fields provide state variables for modeling. The relationships between the intensities of current density and the electric, magnetic, and hemodynamic state variables are complex and far from proportionate. The state variables are complementary, because the information they convey comes from differing albeit overlapping neural populations, so that efforts to cross-validate localization of neural activity relating to specified cognitive behaviors have not always been successful. We propose an alternative way to use the three methods in combination through studies of hemisphere-wide, high-resolution spatiotemporal patterns of neural activity recorded non-invasively and analyzed with multivariate statistics. Success in this proposed endeavor requires specification of what patterns to look for. At the present level of understanding, an appropriate pattern is any significant departure from random noise in the spectral, temporal and spatial domains that can be scaled into the coarse-graining of time by fMRI/BOLD and the coarse-graining of space by EEG and MEG. Here the requisite patterns are predicted to be large-scale spatial amplitude modulation (AM) of synchronized neuronal signals in the beta and gamma ranges that are coordinated but not correlated with fMRI intensities. (c) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
448	dynamical	2011	Expert, P; Lambiotte, R; Chialvo, DR; Christensen, K; Jensen, HJ; Sharp, DJ; Turkheimer, F	Self-similar correlation function in brain resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging	JOURNAL OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY INTERFACE	Adaptive behaviour, cognition and emotion are the result of a bewildering variety of brain spatio-temporal activity patterns. An important problem in neuroscience is to understand the mechanism by which the human brain's 100 billion neurons and 100 trillion synapses manage to produce this large repertoire of cortical configurations in a flexible manner. In addition, it is recognized that temporal correlations across such configurations cannot be arbitrary, but they need to meet two conflicting demands: while diverse cortical areas should remain functionally segregated from each other, they must still perform as a collective, i.e. they are functionally integrated. Here, we investigate these large-scale dynamical properties by inspecting the character of the spatio-temporal correlations of brain resting-state activity. In physical systems, these correlations in space and time are captured by measuring the correlation coefficient between a signal recorded at two different points in space at two different times. We show that this two-point correlation function extracted from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data exhibits self-similarity in space and time. In space, self-similarity is revealed by considering three successive spatial coarse-graining steps while in time it is revealed by the 1/f frequency behaviour of the power spectrum. The uncovered dynamical self-similarity implies that the brain is spontaneously at a continuously changing (in space and time) intermediate state between two extremes, one of excessive cortical integration and the other of complete segregation. This dynamical property may be seen as an important marker of brain well-being in both health and disease.
449	dynamical	2001	Guastello, SJ	Nonlinear dynamics in psychology	DISCRETE DYNAMICS IN NATURE AND SOCIETY	This article provides a survey of the applications of nonlinear dynamical systems theory to substantive problems encountered in the full scope of psychological science. Applications are organized into three topical areas - cognitive science, social and organizational psychology, and personality and clinical psychology. Both theoretical and empirical studies are considered with an emphasis on works that capture the broadest scope of issues that are of substantive interest to psychological theory. A budding literature on the implications of NDS principles in professional practice is reported also.
450	dynamical	2010	Miles, LK; Nind, LK; Henderson, Z; Macrae, CN	Moving memories: Behavioral synchrony and memory for self and others	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Establishing and maintaining connections with others is central to a fulfilling social life In this respect, behavioral coordination provides one avenue by which interpersonal linkages call be formed Drawing from the dynamical systems approach, the present research explored whether temporary interpersonal connections founded oil coordinated behaviour Influence memory for self and others To do so, we measured red participants' Incidental recall of self and other-relevant information after a period of either In-phase or anti-phase interpersonal coordination While participants in the less stable anti-phase condition demonstrated the typical memory advantage for self-related compared to other-related information, tills effect was eliminated when participant and confederate movements displayed in-phase coordination These results are discussed with respect to the interplay between the systems that support interpersonal synchrony and basic social-cognitive processing (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc All rights reserved
451	dynamical	2009	Wijnants, ML; Bosman, AMT; Hasselman, F; Cox, RFA; Van Orden, GC	1/f Scaling in Movement Time Changes with Practice in Precision Aiming	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS PSYCHOLOGY AND LIFE SCIENCES	When people perform repeated goal-directed movements, consecutive movement durations inevitably vary over trials, in poor as well as in skilled performances. The well-established paradigm of precision-aiming is taken as a methodological framework here. Evidence is provided that movement variability in closed tasks is not a random phenomenon, but rather shows a coherent temporal structure, referred to as 1/f scaling. The scaling relation appears more clearly as participants become trained in a highly constrained motor task. Also Recurrence Quantification Analysis (RQA) and Sample Entropy (SampEn) as analytic tools show that variation of movement times becomes less random and more patterned with motor learning. This suggests that motor learning can be regarded as an emergent, dynamical fusing of collaborating subsystems into a lower-dimensional organization. These results support the idea that I If scaling is ubiquitous throughout the cognitive system, and suggest that it plays a fundamental role in the coordination of cognitive as well as motor function.
452	dynamical	2008	Di Paolo, EA; Iizuka, H	How (not) to model autonomous behaviour	BIOSYSTEMS	Autonomous systems are the result of self-sustaining processes of constitution of an identity under precarious circumstances. They may transit through different modes of dynamical engagement with their environment, from committed ongoing coping to open susceptibility to external demands. This paper discusses these two statements and presents examples of models of autonomous behaviour using methods in evolutionary robotics. A model of an agent capable of issuing self-instructions demonstrates the fragility of modelling, autonomy as a function rather than as a property of a system's organization. An alternative model of behavioural preference based on homeostatic adaptation avoids this problem by establishing a mutual constraining between lower-level processes (neural dynamics and sensorimotor interaction) and higher-level metadynamics (experience-dependent, homeostatic triggering of local plasticity and re-organization). The results of these models are lessons about how strong autonomy should be approached: neither as a function, nor as a matter of external vs. internal determination. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
453	dynamical	2014	Maes, PJ; Leman, M; Palmer, C; Wanderley, MM	Action-based effects on music perception	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The classical, disembodied approach to music cognition conceptualizes action and perception as separate, peripheral processes. In contrast, embodied accounts of music cognition emphasize the central role of the close coupling of action and perception. It is a commonly established fact that perception spurs action tendencies. We present a theoretical framework that captures the ways in which the human motor system and its actions can reciprocally influence the perception of music. The cornerstone of this framework is the common coding theory, postulating a representational overlap in the brain between the planning, the execution, and the perception of movement. The integration of action and perception in so-called internal models is explained as a result of associative learning processes. Characteristic of internal models is that they allow intended or perceived sensory states to be transferred into corresponding motor commands (inverse modeling), and vice versa, to predict the sensory outcomes of planned actions (forward modeling). Embodied accounts typically refer to inverse modeling to explain action effects on music perception (Leman, 2007). We extend this account by pinpointing forward modeling as an alternative mechanism by which action can modulate perception. We provide an extensive overview of recent empirical evidence in support of this idea. Additionally, we demonstrate that motor dysfunctions can cause perceptual disabilities, supporting the main idea of the paper that the human motor system plays a functional role in auditory perception. The finding that music perception is shaped by the human motor system and its actions suggests that the musical mind is highly embodied. However, we advocate for a more radical approach to embodied (music) cognition in the sense that it needs to be considered as a dynamical process, in which aspects of action, perception, introspection, and social interaction are of crucial importance.
454	dynamical	2010	Rabinovich, MI; Muezzinoglu, MK; Strigo, I; Bystritsky, A	Dynamical Principles of Emotion-Cognition Interaction: Mathematical Images of Mental Disorders	PLOS ONE	The key contribution of this work is to introduce a mathematical framework to understand self-organized dynamics in the brain that can explain certain aspects of itinerant behavior. Specifically, we introduce a model based upon the coupling of generalized Lotka-Volterra systems. This coupling is based upon competition for common resources. The system can be regarded as a normal or canonical form for any distributed system that shows self-organized dynamics that entail winnerless competition. Crucially, we will show that some of the fundamental instabilities that arise in these coupled systems are remarkably similar to endogenous activity seen in the brain (using EEG and fMRI). Furthermore, by changing a small subset of the system's parameters we can produce bifurcations and metastable sequential dynamics changing, which bear a remarkable similarity to pathological brain states seen in psychiatry. In what follows, we will consider the coupling of two macroscopic modes of brain activity, which, in a purely descriptive fashion, we will label as cognitive and emotional modes. Our aim is to examine the dynamical structures that emerge when coupling these two modes and relate them tentatively to brain activity in normal and non-normal states.
455	dynamical	2002	Thagard, P; Nerb, J	Emotional gestalts: Appraisal, change, and the dynamics of affect	PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	This article interprets emotional change as a transition in a complex dynamical system. We argue that the appropriate kind of dynamical system is one that extends recent work on how neural networks can perform parallel constraint satisfaction. Parallel processes that integrate both cognitive and affective constraints can give rise to states that we call emotional gestalts, and transitions can be understood as emotional gestalt shifts. We describe computational models that simulate such phenomena in ways that show how dynamical and gestalt metaphors can be given a concrete realization.
456	dynamical	2009	Iyer, LR; Doboli, S; Minai, AA; Brown, VR; Levine, DS; Paulus, PB	Neural dynamics of idea generation and the effects of priming	NEURAL NETWORKS	Idea generation is a fundamental attribute of the human mind, but the cognitive and neural mechanisms underlying this process remain unclear. In this paper, we present a dynamic connectionist model for the generation of ideas within a brainstorming context. The key hypothesis underlying the model is that ideas emerge naturally from itinerant attractor dynamics in a multi-level, modular semantic space, and the potential Surface underlying this dynamics is itself shaped dynamically by task context, ongoing evaluative feedback, inhibitory modulation, and short-term synaptic modification. While abstract, the model attempts to capture the interplay between semantic representations, working memory, attentional selection, reinforcement signals, and modulation. We show that, once trained on a set of contexts and ideas, the system can rapidly recall stored ideas in familiar contexts, and can generate novel ideas by efficient. multi-level dynamical search in both familiar and unfamiliar contexts. We also use a simplified continuous-time instantiation of the model to explore the effect of priming on idea generation. In particular, we consider how priming low-accessible categories in a connectionist semantic network can lead to the generation of novel ideas. The mapping of the model onto various regions and modulatory processes in the brain is also discussed briefly. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
457	dynamical	2012	Meehan, TP; Bressler, SL	Neurocognitive networks: Findings, models, and theory	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	Through its early history, cognitive neuroscience largely followed a modular paradigm wherein high-level cognitive functions were mapped onto locally segregated brain regions. However, recent evidence drives a continuing shift away from modular theories of cognitive brain function, and toward theories which hold that cognition arises from the integrated activity of large-scale, distributed networks of brain regions. A growing consensus favors the fundamental concept of this new paradigm: the large-scale cognitive brain network, or neurocognitive network. This consensus was the motivation for Neurocognitive Networks 2010 (NCN 2010), a conference sponsored by the Cognitive Neuroscience Program of the National Science Foundation, organized by Drs. Steven Bressler and Craig Richter of Florida Atlantic University (FAU), and held at FAU in Boca Raton, FL on January 29-30, 2010. NCN 2010 gathered together some of today's leading investigators of neurocognitive networks. This paper serves to review their presentations as they relate to the paradigm of neurocognitive networks, as well as to compile the emergent themes, questions, and possible future research directions that arose from the conference. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
458	dynamical	2009	Cordovil, R; Araujo, D; Davids, K; Gouveia, L; Barreiros, J; Fernandes, O; Serpa, S	The influence of instructions and body-scaling as constraints on decision-making processes in team sports	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SPORT SCIENCE	Team games conceptualized as dynamical systems engender a view of emergent decision-making behaviour under constraints, although specific effects of instructional and body-scaling constraints have yet to be verified empirically. For this purpose, we studied the effects of task and individual constraints on decision-making processes in basketball. Eleven experienced female players performed 350 trials in 1 vs. 1 sub-phases of basketball in which an attacker tried to perturb the stable state of a dyad formed with a defender (i.e. break the symmetry). In Experiment 1, specific instructions (neutral, risk taking or conservative) were manipulated to observe effects on emergent behaviour of the dyadic system. When attacking players were given conservative instructions, time to cross court mid-line and variability of the attacker's trajectory were significantly greater. In Experiment 2, body-scaling of participants was manipulated by creating dyads with different height relations. When attackers were considerably taller than defenders, there were fewer occurrences of symmetry-breaking. When attackers were considerably shorter than defenders, time to cross court mid-line was significantly shorter than when dyads were composed of athletes of similar height or when attackers were considerably taller than defenders. The data exemplify how interacting task and individual constraints can influence emergent decision-making processes in team ball games.
459	dynamical	2008	Vernon, D	Cognitive vision: The case for embodied perception	IMAGE AND VISION COMPUTING	This paper considers arguments for the necessity of embodiment in cognitive vision systems. We begin by delineating the scope of cognitive vision, and follow this by a survey of the various approaches that can be taken to the realization of artificial cognitive vision systems, focussing on cognitive aspects. These range from the cognitivist symbolic representational paradigm, through connectionist systems and self-organizing dynamical systems, to the enactive cognition paradigm. We then consider various arguments for embodiment, beginning with paradigm-specific cases, and concluding with a paradigm-independent argument for embodied perception and cognition. We explore briefly different forms of embodiment and their relevance to the foregoing viewpoints. We highlight some of the key problems associated with embodied cognitive vision, including the phylogeny/ontogeny trade-off in artificial systems and the developmental limitations imposed by real-time environmental coupling. Finally, we conclude by considering some aspects of natural cognitive systems to see how they can provide insights to help in addressing these problems. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
460	dynamical	2005	Dale, R; Spivey, MJ	From apples and oranges to symbolic dynamics: a framework for conciliating notions of cognitive representation	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	We introduce symbolic dynamics to cognitive scientists with the aim of furthering constructive debate on representation. Symbolic dynamics is a mathematical framework in which both continuous and discrete states of a system can be considered jointly. We discuss a number of theoretical implications this framework has for cognitive science, and offer some consideration of the way in which it might be employed for comparing or conciliating discrete and continuous representational theories. Symbolic dynamics may thus serve as a common, level playing field for debate in theories of cognitive representation.
461	dynamical	2004	Beer, RD	Autopoiesis and cognition in the game of life	ARTIFICIAL LIFE	Maturana and Varela's notion of autopoiesis has the potential to transform the conceptual foundation of biology as well as the cognitive, behavioral, and brain sciences. In order to fully realize this potential, however, the concept of autopoiesis and its many consequences require significant further theoretical and empirical development. A crucial step in this direction is the formulation and analysis of models of autopoietic systems. This article sketches the beginnings of such a project by examining a glider from Conway's game of life in autopoietic terms. Such analyses can clarify some of the key ideas underlying autopoiesis and draw attention to some of the central open issues. This article also examines the relationship between an autopoietic perspective on cognition and recent work on dynamical approaches to the behavior and cognition of situated, embodied agents.
462	dynamical	2001	Cariani, P	Symbols and dynamics in the brain	BIOSYSTEMS	The work of physicist and theoretical biologist Howard Pattee has focused on the roles that symbols and dynamics play in biological systems. Symbols, as discrete functional switching-states, are seen at the heart of all biological systems in the form of genetic codes. and at the core of all neural systems in the form of informational mechanisms that switch behavior. They also appear in one form or another in all epistemic systems, from informational processes embedded in primitive organisms to individual human beings to public scientific models. Over its course, Pattee's work has explored (1) the physical basis of informational functions (dynamical vs. rule-based descriptions, switching mechanisms, memory, symbols), (2) the functional organization of the observer (measurement, computation), (3) the means by which information can be embedded in biological organisms fur purposes of self-construction and representation (as codes modeling relations, memory. symbols), and (4) the processes by which new structures and functions can emerge over time. We discuss how these concepts can be applied to a high-level understanding of the brain. Biological organisms constantly reproduce themselves as well as their relations with their environs. The brain similarly can be seen as a self-producing, sell-regenerating neural signaling system and as an adaptive informational system that interacts with its surrounds in order to steer behavior. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
463	dynamical	2013	Buhrmann, T; Di Paolo, EA; Barandiaran, X	A dynamical systems account of sensorimotor contingencies	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	According to the sensorimotor approach, perception is a form of embodied know-how, constituted by lawful regularities in the sensorimotor flow or in sensorimotor contingencies (SMCs) in an active and situated agent. Despite the attention that this approach has attracted, there have been few attempts to define its core concepts formally. In this paper, we examine the idea of SMCs and argue that its use involves notions that need to be distinguished. We introduce four distinct kinds of SMCs, which we define operationally. These are the notions of sensorimotor environment (open-loop motor-induced sensory variations), sensorimotor habitat (closed-loop sensorimotor trajectories), sensorimotor coordination (reliable sensorimotor patterns playing a functional role), and sensorimotor strategy (normative organization of sensorimotor coordinations). We make use of a minimal dynamical model of visually guided categorization to test the explanatory value of the different kinds of SMCs. Finally, we discuss the impact of our definitions on the conceptual development and empirical as well as model-based testing of the claims of the sensorimotor approach.
464	dynamical	2000	Seitz, JA	The bodily basis of thought	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Classical cognitivist and connectionist models posit a Cartesian disembodiment of mind assuming that brain events can adequately explain thought and related notions such as intellect. Instead, we argue for the bodily basis of thought and its continuity beyond the sensorimotor stage. Indeed, there are no eternally fixed representations of the external world in the "motor system", rather, it is under the guidance of both internal and external factors with important linkages to frontal, parietal, cerebellar, basal ganglionic, and cingulate gyrus areas that subserve cognitive and motivational activities. Indeed, the motor system, including related structures, is a self-organizing dynamical system contextualized among musculoskeletal, environmental (e.g,, gravity), and social forces. We do not simply inhabit our bodies; we literally use them to think with. "The words of language, as they are written or spoken, do not seem to play any role in my mechanism or thought. The psychical entities which seem to serve as elements in thought are certain signs and more or less clear images which can be "voluntarily" reproduced and combined..,. The above mentioned elements are, in my case, of visual and some of muscular type" (Einstein quoted in Hadamard, 1996, The mathematician's mind: The psychology of invention in the mathematical field. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press (original work published 1945).) (C) 2000 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
465	dynamical	2009	Medina, JM	1/f(alpha) noise in reaction times: A proposed model based on Pieron's law and information processing	PHYSICAL REVIEW E	Pieron's law relates human reaction times to the intensity of a sensory stimulus by a power function. The neural processes responsible for this nonlinear behavior are not understood. A simple neural model based on the Brownian motion of spikes and information theory is presented. The model shows that Pieron's law is a transformation function in time. The shape of Pieron's law is invariant and scales into the intensity-response function of single neurons in a fractal-like process. The model also shows that Pieron's law gives rise to 1/f(alpha) noise together with a high-frequency thermal noise limit. It is proposed that the biophysical origin of reaction time variability is related to a form of noise-induced synchronization in weakly coupled neurons. The implications in visual-motor transduction are discussed.
466	dynamical	2007	Levine, DS	Neural network modeling of emotion	PHYSICS OF LIFE REVIEWS	This article reviews the history and development of computational neural network modeling of cognitive and behavioral processes that involve emotion. The exposition starts with models of classical conditioning dating from the early 1970s. Then it proceeds toward models of interactions between emotion and attention. Then models of emotional influences on decision making are reviewed, including some speculative (not and not yet simulated) models of the evolution of decision rules. Through the late 1980s, the neural networks developed to model emotional processes were mainly embodiments of significant functional principles motivated by psychological data. In the last two decades, network models of these processes have become much more detailed in their incorporation of known physiological properties of specific brain regions, while preserving many of the psychological principles from the earlier models. Most network models of emotional processes so far have dealt with positive and negative emotion in general, rather than specific emotions such as fear, joy, sadness, and anger. But a later section of this article reviews a few models relevant to specific emotions: one family of models of auditory fear conditioning in rats, and one model of induced pleasure enhancing creativity in humans. Then models of emotional disorders are reviewed. The article concludes with philosophical statements about the essential contributions of emotion to intelligent behavior and the importance of quantitative theories and models to the interdisciplinary enterprise of understanding the interactions of emotion, cognition, and behavior. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
467	dynamical	2003	Haselager, P; de Groot, A; van Rappard, H	Representationalism vs. anti-representationalism: a debate for the sake of appearance	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In recent years the cognitive science community has witnessed the rise of a new, dynamical approach to cognition. This approach entails a framework in which cognition and behavior are taken to result from complex dynamical interactions between brain, body, and environment. The advent of the dynamical approach is grounded in a dissatisfaction with the classical computational view of cognition. A particularly strong claim has been that cognitive systems do not rely on internal representations and computations. Focusing on this claim, we take as a starting point a question recently raised by Cliff and Noble: "... if evolution did produce a design that used internal representations, how would we recognize it?" (Knowledge-based vision and simple visual machines, Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society: Biological Sciences, 352, 1165-1175, 1997). We will argue that cognitive science lacks a proper operationalization of the notion of representation, and therefore is unable to ftuitfully discuss whether a particular system has representations or not. A basic method to detect representations in a physical system, grounded in isomorphism, turns out to be quite unconstrained. We will look at a practical example of this problem by examining the debate on whether or not van Gelder's (What might cognition be, if not computation? Journal of Philosophy, 92, 345-381, 1995) controversial example of the Watt Governor is representational. We will conclude that cognitive science, as of yet, has no empirically applicable means to answer Cliff and Noble's question unequivocally. This makes the recent representationalism vs. anti-representationalism debate a debate for the sake of appearance.
468	dynamical	1994	HORGAN, T; TIENSON, J	A NONCLASSICAL FRAMEWORK FOR COGNITIVE SCIENCE	SYNTHESE	David Marr provided a useful framework for theorizing about cognition within classical, AI-style cognitive science, in terms of three levels of description:  the levels of (i) cognitive function, (ii) algorithm and (iii) physical implementation.  We generalize this framework:  (i) cognitive state transitions, (ii) mathematical/functional design and (iii) physical implementation or realization.  Specifying the middle, design level to be the theory of dynamical systems yields a nonclassical, alternative framework that suits (but is not committed to) connectionism.  We consider how a brain's (or a network's) being a dynamical system might be the key both to its realizing various essential features of cognition - productivity, systematicity, structure-sensitive processing, syntax - and also to a non-classical solution of (frame-type) problems plaguing classical cognitive science.
469	dynamical	2007	Iizuka, H; Di Paolo, EA	Toward spinozist robotics: Exploring the minimal dynamics of Behavioral preference	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	A preference is not located anywhere in the agent's cognitive architecture, but it is rather a constraining of behavior which is in turn shaped by behavior. Based on this idea, a minimal model of behavioral preference is proposed. A simulated mobile agent is modeled with a plastic neurocontroller, which holds two separate high dimensional homeostatic boxes in the space of neural dynamics. An evolutionary algorithm is used for creating a link between the boxes and the performance of two different phototactic behaviors. After evolution, the agent's performance exhibits some important aspects of behavioral preferences such as durability and transitions. This article demonstrates (1) the logical consistency of the multi-causal view by producing a case study of its viability and providing insights into its dynamical basis and (2) how durability and transitions arise through the mutual constraining of internal and external dynamics in the flow of alternating high and low susceptibility to environmental variations. Implications for modeling autonomy are discussed.
470	dynamical	2014	Bruineberg, J; Rietveld, E	Self-organization, free energy minimization, and optimal grip on a field of affordances	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	In this paper, we set out to develop a theoretical and conceptual framework for the new field of Radical Embodied Cognitive Neuroscience. This framework should be able to integrate insights from several relevant disciplines: theory on embodied cognition, ecological psychology, phenomenology, dynamical systems theory, and neurodynamics. We suggest that the main task of Radical Embodied Cognitive Neuroscience is to investigate the phenomenon of skilled intentionality from the perspective of the self-organization of the brain-body-environment system, while doing justice to the phenomenology of skilled action. In previous work, we have characterized skilled intentionality as the organism's tendency toward an optimal grip on multiple relevant affordances simultaneously. Affordances are possibilities for action provided by the environment. In the first part of this paper, we introduce the notion of skilled intentionality and the phenomenon of responsiveness to a field of relevant affordances. Second, we use Friston's work on neurodynamics, but embed a very minimal version of his Free Energy Principle in the ecological niche of the animal. Thus amended, this principle is helpful for understanding the embeddedness of neurodynamics within the dynamics of the system "brain-body-landscape of affordances." Next, we show how we can use this adjusted principle to understand the neurodynamics of selective openness to the environment: interacting action-readiness patterns at multiple timescales contribute to the organism's selective openness to relevant affordances. In the final part of the paper, we emphasize the important role of metastable dynamics in both the brain and the brain-body-environment system for adequate affordance-responsiveness. We exemplify our integrative approach by presenting research on the impact of Deep Brain Stimulation on affordance responsiveness of OCD patients.
471	dynamical	2013	Pais, D; Hogan, PM; Schlegel, T; Franks, NR; Leonard, NE; Marshall, JAR	A Mechanism for Value-Sensitive Decision-Making	PLOS ONE	We present a dynamical systems analysis of a decision-making mechanism inspired by collective choice in house-hunting honeybee swarms, revealing the crucial role of cross-inhibitory 'stop-signalling' in improving the decision-making capabilities. We show that strength of cross-inhibition is a decision-parameter influencing how decisions depend both on the difference in value and on the mean value of the alternatives; this is in contrast to many previous mechanistic models of decision-making, which are typically sensitive to decision accuracy rather than the value of the option chosen. The strength of cross-inhibition determines when deadlock over similarly valued alternatives is maintained or broken, as a function of the mean value; thus, changes in cross-inhibition strength allow adaptive time-dependent decision-making strategies. Cross-inhibition also tunes the minimum difference between alternatives required for reliable discrimination, in a manner similar to Weber's law of just-noticeable difference. Finally, cross-inhibition tunes the speed-accuracy trade-off realised when differences in the values of the alternatives are sufficiently large to matter. We propose that the model, and the significant role of the values of the alternatives, may describe other decision-making systems, including intracellular regulatory circuits, and simple neural circuits, and may provide guidance in the design of decision-making algorithms for artificial systems, particularly those functioning without centralised control.
472	dynamical	2006	May, CJ; Schank, JC; Joshi, S; Tran, J; Taylor, RJ; Scott, IE	Rat pups and random robots generate similar self-organized and intentional behavior	COMPLEXITY	Biorobotic research continually demonstrates that behavior and cognition can be the emergent products of (1) embodied agents that are (2) dynamically embedded within an environment and (3) equipped with simple sensorimotor rules. Thigmotaxis is an orientation response to contact manifested in infant rats by wall following, corner burrowing, and group aggregation. Orientation responses have been long thought to be mediated only by sensory or central processes. Here we show that a random control architecture in a morphologically similar robot embedded in a scaled environment can reproduce thigmotaxic behaviors seen in infant rats. We conclude that (1) and (2) may play a larger role than previously thought in the generation of complex behaviors. (c) 2006 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
473	dynamical	2009	Graben, PB; Potthast, R	Inverse problems in dynamic cognitive modeling	CHAOS	Inverse problems for dynamical system models of cognitive processes comprise the determination of synaptic weight matrices or kernel functions for neural networks or neural/dynamic field models, respectively. We introduce dynamic cognitive modeling as a three tier top-down approach where cognitive processes are first described as algorithms that operate on complex symbolic data structures. Second, symbolic expressions and operations are represented by states and transformations in abstract vector spaces. Third, prescribed trajectories through representation space are implemented in neurodynamical systems. We discuss the Amari equation for a neural/dynamic field theory as a special case and show that the kernel construction problem is particularly ill-posed. We suggest a Tikhonov-Hebbian learning method as regularization technique and demonstrate its validity and robustness for basic examples of cognitive computations.
474	dynamical	2009	Sloman, A	Some Requirements for Human-Like Robots: Why the Recent Over-Emphasis on Embodiment Has Held Up Progress	CREATING BRAIN-LIKE INTELLIGENCE: FROM BASIC PRINCIPLES TO COMPLEX INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS	Some issues concerning requirements for architectures, mechanisms, ontologies and form, of representation in intelligent human-like or animal-like robots are discussed. The tautology that a robot that acts and perceives ill the world must be embodied is often combined with false premises, such as the premiss that, a particular type of body is a requirement for intelligence, or for human intelligence, or the premiss that all cognition is concerned with sensorimotor interactions, or the premiss that all cognition is implemented ill dynamical systems closely coupled with sensors and effectors. It is time to step back and ask what robotic research ill the past decade has been ignoring. I shall try to identify some major research gaps by a combination of assembling requirements that have been largely ignored and design ideas that have not been investigated partly because at present it, is too difficult to make Significant progress on those problems with physical robots, as too many different problems need to be solved simultaneously. In particular, the importance of studying some abstract features of the, environment, about which the animal or robot has to learn (extending ideas of J.J.Gibson) has not been widely appreciated.
475	dynamical	2007	Werner, G	Perspectives on the Neuroscience of Cognition and Consciousness	BIOSYSTEMS	The origin and current use of the concepts of computation, representation and information in Neuroscience are examined and conceptual flaws are identified which vitiate their usefulness for addressing the problem of the neural basis of Cognition and Consciousness. In contrast, a convergence of views is presented to support the characterization of the Nervous System as a complex dynamical system operating in a metastable regime, and capable of evolving to configurations and transitions in phase space with potential relevance for Cognition and Consciousness. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
476	dynamical	2001	Kelly, A; Heathcote, A; Heath, R; Longstaff, M	Response-time dynamics: Evidence for linear and low-dimensional nonlinear structure in human choice sequences	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY SECTION A-HUMAN EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Response time (RT) is a commonly used measure of cognitive performance, which is usually characterized as stochastic. However, useful information may be hidden in the apparently random fluctuations of RT. Dynamical systems analysis techniques allow an exploration of the alternative hypothesis that RT fluctuations are deterministic, albeit in a complex manner. We applied careful task construction and noise-reduction and surrogate series tests to show that RT series from a forced-pace serial response-time task have low-dimensional chaotic characteristics. In Experiment 1, 80% of subjects' filtered RT series had low dimensionality, sensitive dependence on initial conditions, spectra close to I If, and stable attractor geometry across sessions. In Experiment 2, we showed that the size of the inter-stimulus interval (ISI) determined the number of subjects with low-dimensional chaotic series. A small ISI caused 100% of subjects to respond in the chaotic regime, whereas only 25% had a low-dimensional chaotic RT component when the ISI was large. We argue that demanding task requirements cause a reduction in the dimensionality of the dynamics, producing RT fluctuations that may reflect a response strategy for controlling RT.
477	dynamical	1998	Clark, A	Time and mind	JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHY	0
478	dynamical	2012	Froese, T; Gallagher, S	Getting interaction theory (IT) together Integrating developmental, phenomenological, enactive, and dynamical approaches to social interaction	INTERACTION STUDIES	We argue that progress in our scientific understanding of the 'social mind' is hampered by a number of unfounded assumptions. We single out the widely shared assumption that social behavior depends solely on the capacities of an individual agent. In contrast, both developmental and phenomenological studies suggest that the personal-level capacity for detached 'social cognition' (conceived as a process of theorizing about and/or simulating another mind) is a secondary achievement that is dependent on more immediate processes of embodied social interaction. We draw on the enactive approach to cognitive science to further clarify this strong notion of 'social interaction' in theoretical terms. In addition, we indicate how this interaction theory (IT) could eventually be formalized with the help of a dynamical systems perspective on the interaction process, especially by making use of evolutionary robotics modeling. We conclude that bringing together the methods and insights of developmental, phenomenological, enactive and dynamical approaches to social interaction can provide a promising framework for future research.
479	dynamical	2010	Raczaszek-Leonardi, J	Multiple Time-Scales of Language Dynamics: An Example From Psycholinguistics	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Linguistic forms are sustained by and, in turn, harness rich dynamics. Dynamical events, important for language, span timescales from milliseconds of brain activity to hundreds of milliseconds of individual cognitive processing, seconds and minutes of interaction, months and years of language acquisition, and hundreds of years of cultural language evolution. These events involve levels ranging from an individual brain, to dyads, to groups, to populations. This article aims to demonstrate that recognition of this complexity gives a different perspective on ogroundingo of linguistic symbols. At the same time it attempts a preliminary systematization of the variety of dynamics that might be important. Finally, an example from psycholinguistic research is presented to show the necessity of including multiple levels and timescales in the explanation of interaction between language and other cognitive processes.
480	dynamical	2009	Murphy, N	Downward Causation and the Neurobiology of Free Will Introduction and Overview	DOWNWARD CAUSATION AND THE NEUROBIOLOGY OF FREE WILL	This chapter provides an overview of some of the history of debates regarding free will, and concurs with several authors who claim that the philosophical discussions have reached a stalemate due to their focus on a metaphysical doctrine Of universal determinism. The way ahead, therefore, requires two developments. One is to focus not on determinism but on reductionism; the other is to attend to specific scientific findings that appear to call free will into question. The chapter provides an introduction to the topics of reductionism, emergence, and downward causation, and then surveys the works of Daniel Wegner and Benjamin Libet, which have been taken to show the irrelevance of conscious will in human action. It summarizes the chapters comprising the rest of the volume, and then offers a reflection on the achievement of the work as a whole - in brief, a critique of free-will skeptics based on human capacities such as meta-cognition and long-term planning, which allow agents to exert downward control on neural processes and behavior. It ends by highlighting, in light of Alasdair MacIntyre's work on moral responsibility, an important additional factor involved in creating the possibility for freedom of choice, namely the possession of abstract symbolic language.
481	dynamical	2008	Edelman, S	On the nature of minds, or: truth and consequences	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	Are minds really dynamical or are they really symbolic? Because minds are bundles of computations, and because computation is always a matter of interpretation of one system by another, minds are necessarily symbolic. Because minds, along with everything else in the universe, are physical, and insofar as the laws of physics are dynamical, minds are necessarily dynamical systems. Thus, the short answer to the opening question is 'yes'. It makes sense to ask further whether some of the computations that constitute a human mind are constrained by functional, algorithmic, or implementational factors to be essentially of the discrete symbolic variety (even if they supervene on an apparently continuous dynamical substrate). I suggest that here too the answer is 'yes' and discuss the need for such discrete, symbolic cognitive computations in communication-related tasks.
482	dynamical	2014	Palermos, SO	Loops, constitution, and cognitive extension	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	The 'causal-constitution' fallacy, the 'cognitive bloat' worry, and the persisting theoretical confusion about the fundamental difference between the hypotheses of embedded (HEMC) and extended (HEC) cognition are three interrelated worries, whose common point-and the problem they accentuate-is the lack of a principled criterion of constitution. Attempting to address the 'causal-constitution' fallacy, mathematically oriented philosophers of mind have previously suggested that the presence of non-linear relations between the inner and the outer contributions is sufficient for cognitive extension. The abstract idea of non-linearity, however, can be easily misunderstood and has, in the past, led to incorrect and counterintuitive conclusions about what may count as part of one's overall cognitive system. In order to prevent any further mistakes I revisit dynamical systems theory to study the nature of the continuous mutual interactions that give rise to the aforementioned non-linear relations. Moreover, focusing on these interactions will allow us to provide two distinct arguments in support of the ontological postulation of extended cognitive systems, as well as an objective criterion of constitution. Accordingly, I put forward a version of HEC that treats continuous mutual interactions (and the resultant non-linear relations) not just as sufficient but also as necessary for cognitive extension. Such a qualified version of HEC may exclude certain alleged cases of cognitive extension where the agent does not mutually interact with his artifacts (e. g., shopping lists and directory services), but it is immune both to the 'causal-constitution' fallacy and the 'cognitive bloat' worry, and it can be sharply distinguished from HEMC. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
483	dynamical	2012	Riley, MA; Shockley, K; Van Orden, G	Learning From the Body About the Mind	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In some areas of cognitive science we are confronted with ultrafast cognition, exquisite context sensitivity, and scale-free variation in measured cognitive activities. To move forward, we suggest a need to embrace this complexity, equipping cognitive science with tools and concepts used in the study of complex dynamical systems. The science of movement coordination has benefited already from this change, successfully circumventing analogous paradoxes by treating human activities as phenomena of self-organization. Therein, action and cognition are seen to be emergent in ultrafast symmetry breaking across the brain and body; exquisitely constituted of the otherwise trivial details of history, context, and environment; and exhibiting the characteristic scale-free signature of self-organization.
484	dynamical	2008	Walmsley, J	Explanation in dynamical cognitive science	MINDS AND MACHINES	In this paper, I outline two strands of evidence for the conclusion that the dynamical approach to cognitive science both seeks and provides covering law explanations. Two of the most successful dynamical models-Kelso's model of rhythmic finger movement and Thelen et al.'s model of infant perseverative reaching-can be seen to provide explanations which conform to the famous explanatory scheme first put forward by Hempel and Oppenheim. In addition, many prominent advocates of the dynamical approach also express the provision of this kind of explanation as a goal of dynamical cognitive science. I conclude by briefly outlining two consequences. First, dynamical cognitive science's explanatory style may strengthen its links to the so-called "situated" approach to cognition, but, secondly, it may also undermine the widespread intuition that dynamics is related to emergentism in the philosophy of mind.
485	dynamical	2014	Neftci, E; Das, S; Pedroni, B; Kreutz-Delgado, K; Cauwenberghs, G	Event-driven contrastive divergence for spiking neuromorphic systems	FRONTIERS IN NEUROSCIENCE	Restricted Boltzmann Machines (RBMs) and Deep Belief Networks have been demonstrated to perform efficiently in a variety of applications, such as dimensionality reduction, feature learning, and classification. Their implementation on neuromorphic hardware platforms emulating large-scale networks of spiking neurons can have significant advantages from the perspectives of scalability, power dissipation and real-time interfacing with the environment. However, the traditional RBM architecture and the commonly used training algorithm known as Contrastive Divergence (CD) are based on discrete updates and exact arithmetics which do not directly map onto a dynamical neural substrate. Here, we present an event-driven variation of CD to train a RBM constructed with Integrate & Fire (I&F) neurons, that is constrained by the limitations of existing and near future neuromorphic hardware platforms. Our strategy is based on neural sampling, which allows us to synthesize a spiking neural network that samples from a target Boltzmann distribution. The recurrent activity of the network replaces the discrete steps of the CD algorithm, while Spike Time Dependent Plasticity (STDP) carries out the weight updates in an online, asynchronous fashion. We demonstrate our approach by training an RBM composed of leaky l&F neurons with STDP synapses to learn a generative model of the MNIST hand-written digit dataset, and by testing it in recognition, generation and cue integration tasks. Our results contribute to a machine learning-driven approach for synthesizing networks of spiking neurons capable of carrying out practical, high-level functionality.
486	dynamical	2014	Witherington, DC	Self-Organization and Explanatory Pluralism: Avoiding the Snares of Reductionism in Developmental Science	RESEARCH IN HUMAN DEVELOPMENT	Over the last 20 years, the concept of self-organization has played a central role in efforts to establish a relational metatheoretical approach to the study of development. Yet the notion of self-organization that predominates in scientific discussions today has undergone a conceptual narrowing relative to the broader use and interpretation of self-organization that characterized the biologically-oriented systems thinking of Weiss and von Bertalanffy and was grounded in Kant's teleological account of organisms as natural ends or purposes. In this article, the author discusses how our conceptual use of self-organization in developmental science has changed under the influence of nonlinear dynamical systems theory and how these changes could actually foster rather than discourage new forms of reductionism in our thinking about development.
487	dynamical	2012	D'Mello, S; Dale, R; Graesser, A	Disequilibrium in the mind, disharmony in the body	COGNITION & EMOTION	Although it is generally acknowledged that experiences of frustration, confusion, and anxiety are embodied phenomena, very little is known about how these processes modulate presumably unconscious, but constantly present, subtle bodily movement. We addressed this problem by tracking the low-level dynamics of body movement, using 1/f noise, pink noise, or "fractal scaling", during naturalistic experiences of affect in two studies involving deep learning and effortful problem-solving. Our results indicate that body movement fluctuations of individuals experiencing cognitive equilibrium was characteristic of correlated pink noise, but there was a whitening of the signal when participants experienced states that are diagnostic of cognitive distress such as anxiety, confusion, and frustration. We orient our findings within theories that emphasise the embodied nature of cognition and affect and with perspectives that view affective and cognitive processes as emergent products of a self-organising dynamical system (the brain) that is inextricably coupled to the body.
488	dynamical	2011	Spencer, JP; Perone, S; Buss, AT	Twenty Years and Going Strong: A Dynamic Systems Revolution in Motor and Cognitive Development	CHILD DEVELOPMENT PERSPECTIVES	This article reviews the major contributions of dynamic systems theory (DST) in advancing thinking about development, the empirical insights the theory has generated, and the key challenges for the theory on the horizon. The first section discusses the emergence of DST in developmental science, the core concepts of the theory, and the resonance it has with other approaches that adopt a systems metatheory. The second section reviews the work of Esther Thelen and colleagues, who revolutionized how researchers think about the field of motor development. It also reviews recent extensions of this work to the domain of cognitive development. Here, the focus is on dynamic field theory, a formal, neurally grounded approach that has yielded novel insights into the embodied nature of cognition. The final section proposes that the key challenge on the horizon is to formally specify how interactions among multiple levels of analysis and across multiple time scales create developmental change.
489	dynamical	2011	Kukona, A; Tabor, W	Impulse Processing: A Dynamical Systems Model of Incremental Eye Movements in the Visual World Paradigm	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The Visual World Paradigm (VWP) presents listeners with a challenging problem: They must integrate two disparate signals, the spoken language and the visual context, in support of action (e.g., complex movements of the eyes across a scene). We present Impulse Processing, a dynamical systems approach to incremental eye movements in the visual world that suggests a framework for integrating language, vision, and action generally. Our approach assumes that impulses driven by the language and the visual context impinge minutely on a dynamical landscape of attractors corresponding to the potential eye-movement behaviors of the system. We test three unique predictions of our approach in an empirical study in the VWP, and describe an implementation in an artificial neural network. We discuss the Impulse Processing framework in relation to other models of the VWP.
490	dynamical	2011	Zibner, SKU; Faubel, C; Iossifidis, I; Schoner, G	Dynamic Neural Fields as Building Blocks of a Cortex-Inspired Architecture for Robotic Scene Representation	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTONOMOUS MENTAL DEVELOPMENT	Based on the concepts of dynamic field theory (DFT), we present an architecture that autonomously generates scene representations by controlling gaze and attention, creating visual objects in the foreground, tracking objects, reading them into working memory, and taking into account their visibility. At the core of this architecture are three-dimensional dynamic neural fields (DNFs) that link feature to spatial information. These three-dimensional fields couple into lower dimensional fields, which provide the links to the sensory surface and to the motor systems. We discuss how DNFs can be used as building blocks for cognitive architectures, characterize the critical bifurcations in DNFs, as well as the possible coupling structures among DNFs. In a series of robotic experiments, we demonstrate how the DNF architecture provides the core functionalities of a scene representation.
491	dynamical	2006	Briggman, KL; Abarbanel, HDI; Kristan, WB	From crawling to cognition: analyzing the dynamical interactions among populations of neurons	CURRENT OPINION IN NEUROBIOLOGY	By using multi-electrode arrays or optical imaging, investigators can now record from many individual neurons in various parts of nervous systems simultaneously while an animal performs sensory, motor or cognitive tasks. Given the large multidimensional datasets that are now routinely generated, it is often not obvious how to find meaningful results within the data. The analysis of neuronal-population recordings typically involves two steps: the extraction of relevant dynamics from neural data, and then use of the dynamics to classify and discriminate features of a stimulus or behavior. We focus on the application of techniques that emphasize interactions among the recorded neurons rather than using just the correlations between individual neurons and a perception or a behavior. An understanding of modern analysis techniques is crucially important for researchers interested in the co-varying activity among populations of neurons or even brain regions.
492	dynamical	2012	Kirchhoff, MD	Extended cognition and fixed properties: steps to a third-wave version of extended cognition	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	This paper explores several paths a distinctive third wave of extended cognition might take. In so doing, I address a couple of shortcomings of first- and second-wave extended cognition associated with a tendency to conceive of the properties of internal and external processes as fixed and non-interchangeable. First, in the domain of cognitive transformation, I argue that a problematic tendency of the complementarity model is that it presupposes that socio-cultural resources augment but do not significantly transform the brain's representational capacities during diachronic development. In this paper I show that there is available a much more dynamical explanation-one taking the processes of the brain's enculturation into patterned practices as transforming the brain's representational capacities. Second, in the domain of cognitive assembly, I argue that another problematic tendency is an individualistic notion of cognitive agency, since it overlooks the active contribution of socio-cultural practices in the assembly process of extended cognitive systems. In contrast to an individualistic notion of cognitive agency, I explore the idea that it is possible to decentralize cognitive agency to include socio-cultural practices.
493	dynamical	2010	Large, EW	A Dynamical Systems Approach to Musical Tonality	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS IN HUMAN BEHAVIOR	Music is a form of communication that relies on highly structured temporal sequences comparable in complexity to language. Music is found among all human cultures, and musical languages vary across cultures with learning. Tonality a set of stability and attraction relationships perceived among musical frequencies is a universal feature of music, found in virtually every musical culture. In this chapter, a new theory of central auditory processing and development is proposed, and its implications for tonal cognition and perception are explored. A simple model is put forward, based on knowledge of auditory organization and general neurodynamic principles. The model is simplified as compared to the organization and dynamics of the real auditory system, nevertheless it makes realistic predictions about neurodynamics. The analysis predicts the existence of natural resonances, the potential for tonal language learning, the perceptual categorization of intervals, and most importantly, relative stability and attraction relationships among musical tones. This approach suggests that high-level music cognition and perception may arise from the interaction of acoustic signals with the dynamics of the auditory system. Musical universals are predicted by intrinsic neurodynamics that provide a direct link to neurophysiology, and Hebbian synaptic modification could explain how different tonal languages are established.
494	dynamical	2005	Petersson, KM	On the relevance of the neurobiological analogue of the finite-state architecture	NEUROCOMPUTING	We present two simple arguments for the potential relevance of a neurobiological analogue of the finite-state architecture. The first assumes the classical cognitive framework, is well-known, and is based on the assumption that the brain is finite with respect to its memory organization. The second is formulated within a general dynamical systems framework and is based on the assumption that the brain sustains some level of noise and/or does not utilize infinite precision processing. We briefly review the classical cognitive framework based on Church-Turing computability and non-classical approaches based on analog processing in dynamical systems. We conclude that the dynamical neurobiological analogue of the finite-state architecture appears to be relevant, at least at an implementational level, for cognitive brain systems. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
495	dynamical	2002	Tabor, W	The value of symbolic computation	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Standard generative linguistic theory, which uses discrete symbolic models of cognition, has some strengths and weaknesses. It is strong on providing a network of outposts that make scientific travel in the jungles of natural language feasible. It is weak in that it currently depends on the elaborate and unformalized use of intuition to develop critical supporting assumptions about each data point. In this regard, it is not in a position to characterize natural language systems in the lawful terms that ecological psychologists strive for. Connectionist learning models offer some help: They define lawful relations between linguistic environments and language systems. But our understanding of them is currently weak, especially when it comes to natural language syntax. Fortunately, symbolic linguistic analysis can help connectionism if the two meet via dynamical systems theory. I discuss a case in point: Insights from linguistic explorations of natural language syntax appear to have identified information structures that are particularly relevant to understanding ecologically appealing but analytically mysterious connectionist learning models.
496	dynamical	1998	Mandelblit, N; Zachar, O	The notion of dynamic unit: Conceptual developments in cognitive science	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We suggest ct common ground for alternative proposals in different domains of cognitive science which have previously seemed to have little in common. the underlying common theme is associated with a redefinition of the basic unit of analysis in each domain of thought. Our framework suggests ct definition of unity which is based not on inherent properties of the elements constituting the unit, but rather on dynamic patterns of correlation across the elements. We introduce a set of features that characterize the new dynamic units, and distinguish them from traditional units of analysis. A conceptual connection is made with the identification of elementary units in modern physics theories, as well as with concepts and structures in the study of complex dynamical systems and connectionism. The paper analyses the evolution of the concept of unit in different domains of thought in cognitive science, and examines the proposed framework of "dynamic unity" with regard to various theoretical problems within each domain. The particular cognitive science issues discussed in the paper include: (1) the binding problem in the brain; (2) the mental unit of conceptual organization; (3) defining 'wordhood' in linguistics; and (4) identifying the unit of cognition in the natural environment.
497	dynamical	2013	Tylen, K; Fusaroli, R; Bundgaard, PF; Ostergaard, S	Making sense together: A dynamical account of linguistic meaning-making	SEMIOTICA	How is linguistic communication possible? How do we come to share the same meanings of words and utterances? One classical position holds that human beings share a transcendental "platonic" ideality independent of individual cognition and language use (Frege 1948). Another stresses immanent linguistic relations (Saussure 1959), and yet another basic embodied structures as the ground for invariant aspects of meaning (Lakoff and Johnson 1999). Here we propose an alternative account in which the possibility for sharing meaning is motivated by four sources of structural stability: 1) the physical constraints and affordances of our surrounding material environment, 2) biological constraints of our human bodies, 3) social normative constraints of culture and society, and 4) the local history of social interactions. These structures and constraints interact in dynamical ways in actual language usage situations: local dialogical and - social dynamics motivate and stabilize the profiling of a conceptual space already - highly structured by our shared biology, culture, and environment. We will substantiate this perspective with reference to recent studies in experimental pragmatics and semiotics in which participants interact linguistically to solve cooperative tasks. Three main cases will be considered: The dynamic grounding of linguistic categories, the construction of conceptual models to relate entities in a scene, and the construction of shared conceptual scales for assessing and appraising subjective experiences.
498	dynamical	2012	Silberstein, M; Chemero, A	Complexity and Extended Phenomenological-Cognitive Systems	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The complex systems approach to cognitive science invites a new understanding of extended cognitive systems. According to this understanding, extended cognitive systems are heterogenous, composed of brain, body, and niche, non-linearly coupled to one another. This view of cognitive systems, as non-linearly coupled brainbodyniche systems, promises conceptual and methodological advances. In this article we focus on two of these. First, the fundamental interdependence among brain, body, and niche makes it possible to explain extended cognition without invoking representations or computation. Second, cognition and conscious experience can be understood as a single phenomenon, eliminating fruitless philosophical discussion of qualia and the so-called hard problem of consciousness. What we call extended phenomenological-cognitive systems are relational and dynamical entities, with interactions among heterogeneous parts at multiple spatial and temporal scales.
499	dynamical	2010	van der Velde, F; de Kamps, M	Learning of control in a neural architecture of grounded language processing	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Human cognition is characterized by three important features: productivity, dynamics and grounding. These features can be integrated in a neural architecture of language processing. The representations in this architecture always remain "in situ", because they are grounded in perception, action, emotion, associations and (semantic) relations. The neural architecture shows how these representations can be combined in a productive manner, and how dynamics influences this process. The constraints that each of these features impose on each other result in an architecture in which local and global aspects interact in processing and learning. The architecture consists of neural "binding" mechanisms that produce (novel) sentence structures on the fly. Here, we discuss how the control of this binding process can be learned. We trained a feedforward network (FFN) for this task. The results show that information from the architecture is needed as input to learn control of binding. Thus, the control system is recurrent. We show that this recurrent system can learn control of binding for basic (but recursive) sentence structures. After learning, the binding process behaves well on a series of test sentences, including sentences with (unlimited) embeddings. However, for some of these sentences, difficulties arise due to dynamical binding conflicts in the architecture. We also discuss and illustrate the potential influence that the dynamics in the architecture could have on the binding process. (C) 2008 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
500	dynamical	1998	Mitchell, M	A complex-systems perspective on the "computation vs. dynamics" debate in cognitive science	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTIETH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	I review the purported opposition between computational and dynamical approaches in cognitive science. I argue that both computational and dynamical notions will be necessary for a full explanatory account of cognition, and give a perspective on how recent research in complex systems can lead to a much needed rapprochement between computational and dynamical styles of explanation.
501	dynamical	2001	Thelen, E; Schoner, G; Scheier, C; Smith, LB	The dynamics of embodiment: A field theory of infant perseverative reaching	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The overall goal of this target article is to demonstrate a mechanism for an embodied cognition. The particular vehicle is a much-studied, but still widely debated phenomenon seen in 7-12 month-old-infants. In Piaget's classic "A-not-B error," infants who have successfully uncovered a toy at location "A" continue to reach to that location even after they watch the toy hidden in a nearby location "B." Here, we question the traditional explanations of the error as an indicator of infants' concepts of objects or other static mental structures. Instead, we demonstrate that the A-not-B error and its previously puzzling contextual variations can be understood by the coupled dynamics of the ordinary processes of goal-directed actions: looking, planning, reaching, and remembering. We offer a formal dynamic theory and model based on cognitive embodiment that both simulates the known A-not-B effects and offers novel predictions that match new experimental results. The demonstration supports an embodied view by casting the mental events involved in perception, planning, deciding, and remembering in the same analogic dynamic language as that used to describe bodily movement, so that they may be continuously meshed. We maintain that this mesh is a pre-eminently cognitive act of "knowing" not only in infancy but also in everyday activities throughout the life span.
502	dynamical	2001	Tsuda, I	Toward an interpretation of dynamic neural activity in terms of chaotic dynamical systems	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Using the concepts of chaotic dynamical systems, we present an interpretation of dynamic neural activity found in cortical and subcortical areas. The discovery of chaotic itinerancy in high-dimensional dynamical systems with and without a noise term has motivated a new interpretation of this dynamic neural activity, cast in terms of the high-dimensional transitory dynamics among "exotic" attractors. This interpretation is quite different from the conventional one, cast in terms of simple behavior on low-dimensional attractors. Skarda and Freeman (1987) presented evidence in support of the conclusion that animals cannot memorize odor without chaotic activity of neuron populations. Following their work, we study the role of chaotic dynamics in biological information processing, perception, and memory. We propose a new coding scheme of information in chaos-driven contracting systems we refer to as Cantor coding. Since these systems are found in the hippocampal formation and also in the olfactory system, the proposed coding scheme should be of biological significance. Based on these intensive studies, a hypothesis regarding the formation of episodic memory is given.
503	dynamical	2006	Warren, WH	The dynamics of perception and action	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	How might one account for the organization in behavior without attributing it to an internal control structure? The present article develops a theoretical framework called behavioral dynamics that integrates an information-based approach to perception with a dynamical systems approach to action. For a given task, the agent and its environment are treated as a pair of dynamical systems that are coupled mechanically and informationally. Their interactions give rise to the behavioral dynamics, a vector field with attractors that correspond to stable task solutions, repellers that correspond to avoided states, and bifurcations that correspond to behavioral transitions. The framework is used to develop theories of several tasks in which a human agent interacts with the physical environment, including bouncing a ball on a racquet, balancing an object, braking a vehicle, and guiding locomotion. Stable, adaptive behavior emerges from the dynamics of the interaction between a structured environment and an agent with simple control laws, under physical and informational constraints.
504	dynamical	1998	van Gelder, T	The dynamical hypothesis in cognitive science	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	According to the dominant computational approach in cognitive science, cognitive agents are digital computers; according to the alternative approach, they are dynamical systems. This target article attempts to articulate and support the dynamical hypothesis. The dynamical hypothesis has two major components: the nature hypothesis (cognitive agents are dynamical systems) and the knowledge hypothesis (cognitive agents can be understood dynamically). A wide range of objections to this hypothesis can be rebutted. The conclusion is that cognitive systems may well be dynamical systems, and only sustained empirical research in cognitive science will determine the extent to which that is true.
505	dynamical	2003	Beer, RD	The dynamics of active categorical perception in an evolved model agent	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Notions of embodiment, situatedness, and dynamics are increasingly being debated in cognitive science. However, these debates are often carried out in the absence of concrete examples. In order to build intuition, this paper explores a model agent to illustrate how the perspective and tools of dynamical systems theory can be applied to the analysis of situated, embodied agents capable of minimally cognitive behavior. Specifically, we study a model agent whose "nervous system" was evolved using a genetic algorithm to catch circular objects and to avoid diamond-shaped ones. After characterizing the performance, behavioral strategy and psychophysics of the best-evolved agent, its dynamics are analyzed in some detail at three different levels: (1) the entire coupled brain/body/environment system; (2) the interaction between agent and environment that generates the observed coupled dynamics; (3) the underlying neuronal properties responsible for the agent dynamics. This analysis offers both explanatory insight and testable predictions. The paper concludes with discussions of the overall picture that emerges from this analysis, the challenges this picture poses to traditional notions of representation, and the utility of a research methodology involving the analysis of simpler idealized models of complete brain/body/environment systems.
506	dynamical	2006	van der Maas, HLJ; Dolan, CV; Grasman, RPPP; Wicherts, JM; Huizenga, HM; Raijmakers, MEJ	A dynamical model of general intelligence: The positive manifold of intelligence by mutualism	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Scores on cognitive tasks used in intelligence tests correlate positively with each other, that is, they display a positive manifold of correlations. The positive manifold is often explained by positing a dominant latent variable, the g factor, associated with a single quantitative cognitive or biological process or capacity. In this article, a new explanation of the positive manifold based on a dynamical model is proposed, in which reciprocal causation or mutualism plays a central role. It is shown that the positive manifold emerges purely by positive beneficial interactions between cognitive processes during development. A single underlying g factor plays no role in the model. The model offers explanations of important findings in intelligence research, such as the hierarchical factor structure of intelligence, the low predictability of intelligence from early childhood performance, the integration/differentiation effect, the increase in heritability of g, and the Jensen effect, and is consistent with current explanations of the Flynn effect.
507	dynamical	2001	Newell, KM; Liu, YT; Mayer-Kress, G	Time scales in motor learning and development	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A theoretical framework based on the concepts and tools of nonlinear dynamical systems is advanced to account for both the persistent and transitory changes traditionally shown for the learning and development of motor skills. The multiple lime scales of change in task outcome over time are interpreted as originating from the system's trajectory on an evolving attractor landscape. Different bifurcations between attractor organizations and transient phenomena can lead to exponential, power law, or S-shaped learning curves. This unified dynamical account of the Functions and time scales in motor learning and development offers several new hypotheses for future research on the nature of change in learning theory.
508	dynamical	2006	Araujo, D; Davids, K; Hristovski, R	The ecological dynamics of decision making in sport	PSYCHOLOGY OF SPORT AND EXERCISE	Objectives: The aim of this position paper is to consider the decision-making process as an integral part of goal-directed behaviour influenced by functional constraints at the scale of the environment-athlete relationship. To achieve this aim we discuss relevant theoretical ideas from ecological psychology, focusing particularly on ecological dynamics, as a contrast to more traditional perspectives on decision-making behaviour. To support the argumentation we briefly describe some recent empirical data from studies of sports that emphasise this alternative. perspective on decision making. We conclude that traditional approaches analyse decisions as if they were not grounded, i.e., expressed behaviourally through actions in performance contexts. It is argued that an ecological approach should analyse affordances or action possibilities, when studying cognition in sport, demanding an integration of theories and ideas from the natural sciences in order to understand concepts like information and intentionality. Conclusion: Decision-making behaviour is best considered at the level of the performer-environment relationship and viewed as emerging from the interactions of individuals with environmental constraints over time towards specific functional goals. (C) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
509	dynamical	1993	GUIARD, Y	ON FITT AND HOOKE LAWS - SIMPLE HARMONIC MOVEMENT IN UPPER-LIMB CYCLICAL AIMING	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	Can discrete, single-shot movements and continuous, cyclical movements be reduced to a single concept? In the classical, computational approach to human motor behaviour, cyclical aimed movement has generally been considered to derive from discrete primitives through a concatenation mechanism. Much importance, accordingly, has been attached to discrete-movement paradigms and to techniques allowing the segmentation of continuous data. An alternative approach, suggested by the nonlinear dynamical systems theory, views discreteness as a limiting case of cyclicity. Although attempts have been made recently to account for discrete movements in dynamical terms, cyclical paradigms have been favoured. The concatenation interpretation of cyclical aimed movement is criticized on the ground that it implies a complete waste of mechanical energy once in every half-cycle. Some kinematic data from a one-dimensional reciprocal (i.e., cyclical) aiming experiment are reported, suggesting that human subjects do save muscular efforts from one movement to the next in upper-limb cyclical aiming. The experiment demonstrated convergence on simple harmonic motion as aiming tolerance was increased, an outcome interpreted with reference to Hooke's law, in terms of the muscles' capability of storing potential, elastic energy across movement reversals. Not only is the concatenation concept problematic for understanding cyclical aimed movements, but the very reality of discrete movements is questionable too. It is pointed out that discrete motor acts of real life are composed of complete cycles, rather than half-cycles.
510	dynamical	2002	Large, EW; Palmer, C	Perceiving temporal regularity in music	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We address how listeners perceive temporal regularity in music performances, which are rich in temporal irregularities. A computational model is described in which a small system of internal self-sustained oscillations, operating at different periods with specific phase and period relations, entrains to the rhythms of music performances. Based on temporal expectancies embodied by the oscillations, the model predicts the categorization of temporally changing event intervals into discrete metrical categories, as well as the perceptual salience of deviations from these categories. The model's predictions are tested in two experiments using piano performances of the same music with different phrase structure interpretations (Experiment 1) or different melodic interpretations (Experiment 2). The model successfully tracked temporal regularity amidst the temporal fluctuations found in the performances. The model's sensitivity to performed deviations from its temporal expectations compared favorably with the per-formers' structural (phrasal and melodic) intentions. Furthermore, the model tracked normal performances (with increased temporal variability) better than performances in which temporal fluctuations associated with individual voices were removed (with decreased variability). The small, systematic temporal irregularities characteristic of human performances (chord asynchronies) improved tracking, but randomly generated temporal irregularities did not. These findings suggest that perception of temporal regularity in complex musical sequences is based on temporal expectancies that adapt in response to temporally fluctuating input. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
511	dynamical	1995	COLE, BJ	FRACTAL TIME IN ANIMAL BEHAVIOR - THE MOVEMENT ACTIVITY OF DROSOPHILA	ANIMAL BEHAVIOUR	The organization of episodes of activity and inactivity of Drosophila melanogaster has a complex structure. Episodes of apparently continuous activity have shorter episodes of inactivity embedded within them. This pattern of activity has a self-similar structure; the activity record appears the same regardless of the time scale used. There is a power law dependence of the rate 'constants' that describes how the activity of flies turns on and off. As a consequence no natural time scale for the measurement of the activity level exists, and the amount of activity depends on the time scale of measurement. The observation of fractal time variability in animal behaviour may illuminate the processes that produce activity. Fractal time variation in movement activity can lead to Levy flight patterns of movement, which produce efficient searches. (C) 1995 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour
512	dynamical	2010	Barsalou, LW	Grounded Cognition: Past, Present, and Future	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Thirty years ago, grounded cognition had roots in philosophy, perception, cognitive linguistics, psycholinguistics, cognitive psychology, and cognitive neuropsychology. During the next 20 years, grounded cognition continued developing in these areas, and it also took new forms in robotics, cognitive ecology, cognitive neuroscience, and developmental psychology. In the past 10 years, research on grounded cognition has grown rapidly, especially in cognitive neuroscience, social neuroscience, cognitive psychology, social psychology, and developmental psychology. Currently, grounded cognition appears to be achieving increased acceptance throughout cognitive science, shifting from relatively minor status to increasing importance. Nevertheless, researchers wonder whether grounded mechanisms lie at the heart of the cognitive system or are peripheral to classic symbolic mechanisms. Although grounded cognition is currently dominated by demonstration experiments in the absence of well-developed theories, the area is likely to become increasingly theory driven over the next 30 years. Another likely development is the increased incorporation of grounding mechanisms into cognitive architectures and into accounts of classic cognitive phenomena. As this incorporation occurs, much functionality of these architectures and phenomena is likely to remain, along with many original mechanisms. Future theories of grounded cognition are likely to be heavily influenced by both cognitive neuroscience and social neuroscience, and also by developmental science and robotics. Aspects from the three major perspectives in cognitive science-classic symbolic architectures, statistical/dynamical systems, and grounded cognition-will probably be integrated increasingly in future theories, each capturing indispensable aspects of intelligence.
513	dynamical	2010	McClelland, JL; Botvinick, MM; Noelle, DC; Plaut, DC; Rogers, TT; Seidenberg, MS; Smith, LB	Letting structure emerge: connectionist and dynamical systems approaches to cognition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Connectionist and dynamical systems approaches explain human thought, language and behavior in terms of the emergent consequences of a large number of simple noncognitive processes. We view the entities that serve as the basis for structured probabilistic approaches as abstractions that are occasionally useful but often misleading: they have no real basis in the actual processes that give rise to linguistic and cognitive abilities or to the development of these abilities. Although structured probabilistic approaches can be useful in determining what would be optimal under certain assumptions, we propose that connectionist, dynamical systems, and related approaches, which focus on explaining the mechanisms that give rise to cognition, will be essential in achieving a full understanding of cognition and development.
514	dynamical	2011	Freeman, JB; Ambady, N	A Dynamic Interactive Theory of Person Construal	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A dynamic interactive theory of person construal is proposed. It assumes that the perception of other people is accomplished by a dynamical. system involving continuous interaction between social categories, stereotypes, high-level cognitive states, and the low-level processing of facial, vocal, and bodily cues. This system permits lower-level sensory perception and higher-order social cognition to dynamically coordinate across multiple interactive levels of processing to give rise to stable person construals. A recurrent connectionist model of this system is described, which accounts for major findings on (a) partial parallel activation and dynamic competition in categorization and stereotyping, (b) top-down influences of high-level cognitive stales and stereotype activations on categorization, (c) bottom-up category interactions due to shared perceptual features, and (d) contextual and cross-modal effects on categorization. The system's probabilistic and continuously evolving activation states permit multiple construals to be flexibly active in parallel. These activation states are also able to be tightly yoked to ongoing changes in external perceptual cues and to ongoing changes in high-level cognitive states. The implications of a rapidly adaptive, dynamic, and interactive person construal system are discussed.
515	dynamical	2006	Marsh, KL; Richardson, MJ; Baron, RM; Schmidt, RC	Contrasting approaches to perceiving and acting with others	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	How and why the presence of a person directly affects the perception and action of another person is a phenomenon that has been approached in a limited and piecemeal fashion within psychology. This kind of diffuse strategy has failed to capture the jointness of perception and action within and between people. In contradistinction, the authors offer a perspective that retains both integrally social features (e.g., involves interaction) and yet adequately exploits the current state of knowledge regarding the ecological properties of perception-action, while at the same time drawing on aspects of dynamic systems theory. In this article the authors review the best attempts to examine how one individual affects another's perceptions and actions in the emergence of a social unit of action. Two important approaches, the individual-level and cognitive dynamics approaches, have yielded insights that derive in significant degree from principles of ecological psychology and/or dynamical systems theory. Prototypic of the individual-level approach is a focus on what can be perceived by coactors with the aim of uncovering how the dispositional qualities (affordances) of another person are informationally specified during social interaction. In contrast, the cognitive dynamics approach simulates dynamical characteristics of cognition and psychological influence with the aim of uncovering how cooperative interaction emerges out of its component parts. The authors argue that these approaches involve, respectively, insufficient mutuality and insufficient embodiment. Consequently, a social synergy perspective is discussed that approaches the problem of socially cooperative interaction at the relational, nonreductive level, using novel methods to examine how social perception and action emerge through self-organizing processes.
516	dynamical	1997	Tabor, W; Juliano, C; Tanenhaus, MK	Parsing in a dynamical system: An attractor-based account of the interaction of lexical and structural constraints in sentence processing	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	A dynamical systems approach to parsing is proposed in which syntactic hypotheses are associated with attractors in a metric space. These attractors have many of the properties of traditional syntactic categories, while at the same time encoding context-dependent, lexically specific distinctions. Hypotheses motivated by the dynamical system theory were tested in four reading time experiments examining the interaction of simple lexical frequencies, frequencies that are contingent on an environment defined by syntactic categories, and frequencies contingent on verb argument structure. The experiments documented a variety of contingent frequency effects that cut across traditional linguistic grains, each of which was predicted by the dynamical systems model. These effects were simulated in an implementation of the theory, employing a recurrent network trained from a corpus to construct metric representations and an algorithm implementing a gravitational dynamical system to model reading time as time to gravitate to an attractor.
517	dynamical	1995	BEEK, PJ; PEPER, CE; STEGEMAN, DF	DYNAMICAL MODELS OF MOVEMENT COORDINATION	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	This article examines the status of dynamical models of movement coordination qua phenomenological models. After a brief outline of the aims, methods and strategic assumptions of the dynamical systems approach, a survey is provided of the theoretical and empirical progress it has made in identifying general principles of coordination. Although dynamical models are constructed for phenomena at a particular level of analysis for which they provide descriptive explanations, their dynamics can sometimes be linked to or associated with the dynamics of processes at other levels of analysis. The article concludes with a tentative scheme to clarify the position of the dynamical approach relative to other extant approaches in movement science.
518	dynamical	2000	Large, EW	On synchronizing movements to music	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	How do people synchronize movement patterns with music? Most likely, when people listen to a musical rhythm, they perceive a bear and a metrical structure in the rhythm, and these perceived patterns enable coordination with the music. Here, a model of meter perception is proposed in which a musical stimulus provides input to a pattern-forming dynamical system. Under rhythmic stimulation, the system undergoes bifurcations that correspond to the birth of self-sustained oscillations and the formation of temporally structured patterns of oscillations. The resulting patterns dynamically embody the perception of beat and meter, and they are stable in the sense that they can persist in the in the face of rhythmic conflict. The performance of the model is compared with the results of a recent beat induction study (J. Snyder, C.L. Krumhansl, Tapping to ragtime: Cues to pulse-finding. Music Perception, 2000 (under review)) in which musicians tapped along with musical rhythms. The network closely matched human performance for natural musical signals and showed a similar pattern of breakdowns as the input degraded. The theoretical implications of these findings are considered. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
519	dynamical	2009	Shockley, K; Richardson, DC; Dale, R	Conversation and Coordinative Structures	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	People coordinate body postures and gaze patterns during conversation. We review literature showing that (1) action embodies cognition, (2) postural coordination emerges spontaneously when two people converse, (3) gaze patterns influence postural coordination, (4) gaze coordination is a function of common ground knowledge and visual information that conversants believe they share, and (5) gaze coordination is causally related to mutual understanding. We then consider how coordination, generally, can be understood as temporarily coupled neuromuscular components that function as a collective unit known as a coordinative structure in the motor control literature. We speculate that the coordination of gaze and body sway found in conversation may be understood as a cross-person coordinative structure that embodies the goals of the joint action system.
520	dynamical	1999	Clark, A; Grush, R	Towards a cognitive robotics	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	There is a definite challenge in the air regarding the pivotal notion of internal representation. This challenge is explicit in, e.g., van Gelder, 1995; Beer, 1995; Thelen & Smith, 1994; Wheeler, 1994; and elsewhere. We think it is a challenge that can be met and that (importantly) can be met by arguing from within a general framework that accepts many of the basic premises of the work tin new robotics and in dynamical systems theory) that motivates such scepticism in the first place. Our strategy will be as follows. We begin (Section 1) by offering an account (an example and something dose to a definition) of what we shall term Minimal Robust Representationalism (MRR). Sections 2 & 3 address some likely worries and questions about this notion. We end (Section 4) by making explicit the conditions under which, on our account, a science (e.g., robotics) may claim to be addressing cognitive phenomena.
521	dynamical	2005	Wilson, PH	Practitioner review: Approaches to assessment and treatment of children with DCD: an evaluative review	JOURNAL OF CHILD PSYCHOLOGY AND PSYCHIATRY	Movement clumsiness (or Developmental Coordination Disorder - DCD) has gained increasing recognition as a significant condition of childhood. However, some uncertainty still exists about diagnosis. Accordingly, approaches to assessment and treatment are varied, each drawing on distinct theoretical assumptions about the aetiology of the condition and its developmental course. This review evaluates the current status of different approaches to motor assessment and treatment for children with DCD. These approaches are divided according to their broad conceptual origin (or explanatory framework): Normative Functional Skill Approach, General Abilities Approach, Neurodevelopmental Theory, Dynamical Systems Theory, and the Cognitive Neuroscientific Approach. Each conceptual framework is shown to support assessment and treatment methods with varying degrees of conceptual and psychometric integrity. The normative functional skill approach supports the major screening devices for DCD and cognitive (or top-down) approaches to intervention. The general abilities approach and traditional neurodevelopmental theory are not well supported by recent research. The dynamical systems approach supports promising trends in biomechanical or kinematic analysis of movement, ecological task analysis, and task-specific intervention. Finally, and more recently, the cognitive neuroscientific approach has generated some examples of process-oriented assessment and treatment based on validated (brain-behaviour) models of motor control and learning. A multi-level approach to movement assessment and treatment is recommended for DCD, providing a more complete representation of motor development at different levels of function - behavioural, neurocognitive, and emotional.
522	dynamical	2003	Schmidt, RA	Motor schema theory after 27 years: Reflections and implications for a new theory	RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT	The schema theory for discrete motor skill learning (Schmidt, 1975), originally published in 1975, has generated considerable interest and received strong challenges over its lifetime. In this paper, I focus on the findings generated since 1975 that bear on the theory and highlight those that produce difficulties for it and will be motivators for differing theoretical viewpoints in the future. At the same time, I examine other lines of evidence that seem to bolster the original lines of thinking. Finally, I provide some suggestions for a much needed new generation of motor learning theory, pointing out particular features from the schema theory that could be included and suggesting gaps and omissions that will need additional data and theorizing in future attempts.
523	dynamical	1998	Bechtel, W	Representations and cognitive explanations: Assessing the dynamicist's challenge in cognitive science	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Advocates of dynamical systems theory (DST) sometimes employ revolutionary rhetoric. In an attempt to clarify how DST models differ from others in cognitive science, I focus on two issues raised by DST: the role for representations in mental models and the conception of explanation invoked. Two features of representations ore their role in standing-in for features external to the system and their format. DST advocates sometimes claim to have repudiated the need for stand-ins in DST models, but I argue that they are mistaken. Nonetheless, DST does offer new ideas as to the format of representations employed in cognitive systems. With respect to explanation, I argue that some DST models are better seen as conforming to the covering-raw conception of explanation than to the mechanistic conception of explanation implicit in most cognitive science research. But even here, I argue, DST models are a valuable complement to more mechanistic cognitive explanations.
524	dynamical	1992	CAMRAS, LA	EXPRESSIVE DEVELOPMENT AND BASIC EMOTIONS	COGNITION & EMOTION	One important emotion theory currently postulates an innate tie between specific infant facial expressions and a set of discrete basic emotions. The arguments and evidence relevant to this assertion are reviewed. New data are presented from a naturalistic study of one infant's early expressive development and a judgement study of infant facial, vocal, and body activity. These data challenge the innate tie hypothesis. Based on dynamical systems systems theory, an alternate conceptual framework is presented that may allow us to usefully retain the concept of basic emotions while accommodating the data on infant expressive development.
525	dynamical	2010	Ferrer, E; McArdle, JJ	Longitudinal Modeling of Developmental Changes in Psychological Research	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	In this article we provide a review of recent advances in longitudinal models for multivariate change. We first claim the need for dynamic modeling approaches as a way to evaluate psychological theories. We then describe one such approach, latent change score (LCS) models, and illustrate their utility with a summary of research findings in various areas of psychological science. We then highlight the most prominent features of LCS models. We conclude the article with suggestions for future research on multivariate models of change that can enhance our understanding of psychological science.
526	dynamical	2006	Spivey, MJ; Dale, R	Continuous dynamics in real-time cognition	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Real-time cognition is best described not as a sequence of logical operations performed on discrete symbols but as a continuously changing pattern of neuronal activity. The continuity in these dynamics indicates that, in between describable states of mind, mental activity does not lend itself to the linguistic labels relied on by much of psychology. We discuss eye-tracking and mouse-tracking evidence for this temporal continuity and provide geometric visualizations of mental activity, depicting it as a continuous trajectory through a state space (a multidimensional space in which locations correspond to mental states). When the state of the system travels toward a frequently visited region of that space, the destination may constitute recognition of a particular word or a particular object; but on the way there, the majority of the mental trajectory is in intermediate regions of that space, revealing graded mixtures of mental states.
527	dynamical	2012	Wagemans, J; Feldman, J; Gepshtein, S; Kimchi, R; Pomerantz, JR; van der Helm, PA; van Leeuwen, C	A Century of Gestalt Psychology in Visual Perception: II. Conceptual and Theoretical Foundations	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	Our first review article (Wagemans et al., 2012) on the occasion of the centennial anniversary of Gestalt psychology focused on perceptual grouping and figure ground organization. It concluded that further progress requires a reconsideration of the conceptual and theoretical foundations of the Gestalt approach, which is provided here. In particular, we review contemporary formulations of holism within an information-processing framework, allowing for operational definitions (e.g., integral dimensions, emergent features, configural superiority, global precedence, primacy of holistic/configural properties) and a refined understanding of its psychological implications (e.g., at the level of attention, perception, and decision). We also review 4 lines of theoretical progress regarding the law of Pragnanz-the brain's tendency of being attracted towards states corresponding to the simplest possible organization, given the available stimulation. The first considers the brain as a complex adaptive system and explains how self-organization solves the conundrum of trading between robustness and flexibility of perceptual states. The second specifies the economy principle in terms of optimization of neural resources, showing that elementary sensors working independently to minimize uncertainty can respond optimally at the system level. The third considers how Gestalt percepts (e.g., groups, objects) are optimal given the available stimulation, with optimality specified in Bayesian terms. Fourth, structural information theory explains how a Gestaltist visual system that focuses on internal coding efficiency yields external veridicality as a side effect. To answer the fundamental question of why things look as they do, a further synthesis of these complementary perspectives is required.
528	dynamical	2013	Wilson, AD; Golonka, S	Embodied cognition is not what you think it is	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The most exciting hypothesis in cognitive science right now is the theory that cognition is embodied. Like all good ideas in cognitive science, however, embodiment immediately came to mean six different things. The most common definitions involve the straightforward claim that "states of the body modify states of the mind." However, the implications of embodiment are actually much more radical than this. If cognition can span the brain, body, and the environment, then the "states of mind" of disembodied cognitive science won't exist to be modified. Cognition will instead be an extended system assembled from a broad array of resources. Taking embodiment seriously therefore requires both new methods and theory. Here we outline four key steps that research programs should follow in order to fully engage with the implications of embodiment. The first step is to conduct a task analysis, which characterizes from a first person perspective the specific task that a perceiving-acting cognitive agent is faced with. The second step is to identify the task-relevant resources the agent has access to in order to solve the task. These resources can span brain, body, and environment. The third step is to identify how the agent can assemble these resources into a system capable of solving the problem at hand. The last step is to test the agent's performance to confirm that agent is actually using the solution identified in step 3. We explore these steps in more detail with reference to two useful examples (the outfielder problem and the A-not-B error), and introduce how to apply this analysis to the thorny question of language use. Embodied cognition is more than we think it is, and we have the tools we need to realize its full potential.
529	dynamical	2009	Elman, JL	On the Meaning of Words and Dinosaur Bones: Lexical Knowledge Without a Lexicon	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Although for many years a sharp distinction has been made in language research between rules and words-with primary interest on rules-this distinction is now blurred in many theories. If anything, the focus of attention has shifted in recent years in favor of words. Results from many different areas of language research suggest that the lexicon is representationally rich, that it is the source of much productive behavior, and that lexically specific information plays a critical and early role in the interpretation of grammatical structure. But how much information can or should be placed in the lexicon? This is the question I address here. I review a set of studies whose results indicate that event knowledge plays a significant role in early stages of sentence processing and structural analysis. This poses a conundrum for traditional views of the lexicon. Either the lexicon must be expanded to include factors that do not plausibly seem to belong there; or else virtually all information about word meaning is removed, leaving the lexicon impoverished. I suggest a third alternative, which provides a way to account for lexical knowledge without a mental lexicon.
530	dynamical	1997	Vallacher, RR; Nowak, A	The emergence of dynamical social psychology	PSYCHOLOGICAL INQUIRY	Interpersonal thought and action represent highly dynamic and complex phenomena. Because of these defining qualities, social psychology has proven resistant to integrative understanding and unqualified prediction within traditional theoretical and empirical approaches. These same qualities, however, make social psychology highly amenable to understanding and investigation within the framework of dynamical systems theory (DST). In the target article, we establish the relevance of this emerging scientific metatheory for theory construction and research in social psychology. We introduce key insights, theoretical notions, and paradigmatic features of the dynamical perspective, map these ideas onto established social psychological phenomena, and suggest new areas of investigation that reflect these ideas. In so doing, we outline the means by which complex interpersonal phenomena can be understood in terms of simple models involving principles and mechanisms common to a wide variety of dynamical systems. We conclude by indicating how DST resolves the implicit trade-off between insight and scientific rigor in social psychology, provides a heuristic for theory construction and hypothesis generation, and holds potential for establishing theoretical coherence within a fragmented field and for integrating the field as a whole with other areas of science.
531	dynamical	1994	WAGENAAR, RC; VANEMMERIK, REA	DYNAMICS OF PATHOLOGICAL GAIT	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	This paper is aimed at applying tools of dynamical systems theory to the evaluation and treatment of movement disorders. A key notion in this approach is that qualitative changes in movement coordination emerge spontaneously as a result of unspecific and continuous changes in control parameters. Our research on the dynamics of gait indicates that gradually varying walking velocity as a control parameter results in systematic changes in the frequency and phase relations of arm and leg movements as well as in the phase relation of pelvic and thoracic rotation within the bipedal walking mode. Identification of these intrinsic dynamics of gait enables the classification of pathological coordination patterns. Stability and the ability to make transitions between patterns (adaptability) are important issues in the evaluation of movement disorders. For exercise therapy this implies that the patient must learn to tap the appropriate control parameter in order to facilitate spontaneous emergence of the desired coordination pattern. The use of perceptual information in the form of external auditory and visual rhythms can have positive influences on hemiplegic and Parkinsonian gait by synchronizing the movements of the body segments. The effects of rhythmic exercises are, however, very sensitive to the nature and magnitude of the rhythms manipulated. It is concluded that a systematic investigation of the role of perceptual control variables is a necessary prerequisite to understand and treat movement disorders.
532	dynamical	2008	Freeman, JB; Ambady, N; Rule, NO; Johnson, KL	Will a Category Cue Attract You? Motor Output Reveals Dynamic Competition Across Person Construal	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	People use social categories to perceive others. extracting category cues to glean membership. Growing evidence for continuous dynamics in real-time cognition suggests. contrary to prevailing social psychological accounts. that person construal may involve dynamic competition between simultaneously active representations. To test this, the authors examined social categorization in real-time by streaming the x, y coordinates of hand movements as participants categorized typical and atypical faces by sex. Though judgments of atypical targets were largely accurate. online motor Output exhibited l Continuous spatial attraction toward the opposite sex category. indicating dynamic competition between multiple social category alternatives. The authors offer a dynamic continuity account of social categorization and provide converging evidence across categorizations of real male and female faces (containing a typical or in atypical sex-specifying cue) and categorizations of computer-generated male and female faces (with Subtly morphed sex-typical or sex-atypical features). In 3 studies, online motor Output revealed continuous dynamics underlying Person construal. ill which multiple simultaneously and partially active category representations gradually cascade into social categorical judgments. Such evidence is challenging for discrete stage-based accounts.
533	dynamical	1994	FITZPATRICK, P; CARELLO, C; SCHMIDT, RC; COREY, D	HAPTIC AND VISUAL-PERCEPTION OF AN AFFORDANCE FOR UPRIGHT POSTURE	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Perception of whether a slanted surface supports upright stance was evaluated visually and haptically.  Observers stood approximately 1 m from a 1 m x 1 m plywood board whose angle of inclination varied randomly among seven settings (12-degrees, 17-degrees, 22-degrees, 27-degrees, 33-degrees, 39-degrees, and 45-degrees).  For visual trials, observers looked at the surface.  For haptic trials, the observers were blindfolded and explored the surface with a hand-held wooden dowel.  The perceived behavioral category boundary (i.e., the slope that received 50% yes responses) did not differ for visual and haptic judgments.  Although the two perceptual systems did not differ in the mean, participants took longer to make haptic judgments and were less confident in doing so.  For both perceptual systems, response time increased and confidence decreased at the category boundary.  A second experiment used ascending and descending methods of limits and found both enhanced contrast and hysteresis effects for both perceptual systems.  Differences between perceptual systems were discussed in the context of efficiency of perception and attunement.  Similarities between perceptual systems were considered in the context of amodal invariants and dynamical systems.
534	dynamical	1998	Mitra, S; Amazeen, PG; Turvey, MT	Intermediate motor learning as decreasing active (dynamical) degrees of freedom	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	A classical view is that motor learning has distinguishable early, intermediate, and late phases. A recent view is that motor learning is the acquisition of an abstract equation of motion that specifies the time evolution of a pattern of coordination. The pattern is expressed by a collective variable that enslaves or orders component subsystems that, in turn, act on and generate the collective variable. In these latter terms, early learning resolves the collective variable and its motion equation, intermediate learning stabilizes and standardizes the subsystems or active degrees of freedom (DFs) producing the collective variable's dynamics. The preceding ideas, and the phase-space reconstruction methods required to determine active DFs, are developed in tutorial fashion in the context of an experimental investigation of learning a bimanual rhythmic coordination. Results show that intermediate learning reduces the dimensionality of the learned coordination's dynamics and renders those dynamics more deterministic. The tutorial development relates the preceding concepts, results and methods of analyses to (a) the contrast between Poincarean and Newtonian dynamics, (b) contemporary interpretations of random processes, (c) definitions of DFs in respect to Bernstein's problem, (d) the potential contribution of chaos to the adaptability of a learned coordination, and (e) possible links between active (dynamical) DFs and the control variables r, c, and mu identified by the lambda hypothesis. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V.
535	dynamical	2005	Sugita, Y; Tani, J	Learning semantic combinatoriality from the interaction between linguistic and behavioral processes	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	We present a novel connectionist model for acquiring the semantics of a simple language through the behavioral experiences of a real robot. We focus on the "compositionality" of semantics and examine how it can be generated through experiments. Our experimental results showed that the essential structures for situated semantics can self-organize themselves through dense interactions between linguistic and behavioral processes whereby a certain generalization in learning is achieved. Our analysis of the acquired dynamical structures indicates that an equivalence of compositionality appears in the combinatorial mechanics self-organized in the neuronal nonlinear dynamics. The manner in which this mechanism of compositionality, based on dynamical systems, differs from that considered in conventional linguistics and other synthetic computational models, is discussed in this paper.
536	dynamical	2002	Thayer, JF; Friedman, BH	Stop that! Inhibition, sensitization, and their neurovisceral concomitants	SCANDINAVIAN JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	There is increasing evidence that the behavior of living systems can be conceptualized as a self-organizing dynamical system. Moreover, evidence suggests that inhibitory processes give these systems the flexibility that is necessary for efficient functioning in the face of changing environmental demands, The process of sensitization can be conceived as a breakdown of inhibitory neural processes that can lead to maladaptive, perseverative behavior. In this paper we describe a model of inhibition and sensitization from a dynamical systems perspective. We show that inhibition is important for adaptive behavior across a number of levels of system functioning. Using our work on attention, emotion, and anxiety disorders we show the importance of both central - for example gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic - and peripheral - for example heart rate variability (HRV) - inhibitory processes and how they may be linked by a network of neural structures that guide the organism from one state of relative stability to another.
537	dynamical	2002	Schoner, G	Timing, clocks, and dynamical systems	BRAIN AND COGNITION	Theoretical and experimental issues for our understanding of the timing of motor acts are reviewed, contrasting stochastic and dynamic timing models. It is argued that the theory of dynamical systems and, in particular, of limit cycle attractors, provides a unified framework within which these issues can be appreciated. The strength of stochastic timing models in the domain of absolute timing is contrasted with the strength of dynamic timing models in the domain of relative timing, the unification of the two domains being currently under way. It is further argued that accounts of timing must examine the interrelation between timing and other levels of processing involved in movement generation. in particular, the representation of spatial aspects of movement and the control of movement. The emergence of discrete event structure in timing skills is discussed from a dynamical systems perspective. Finally, the understanding of the timing structure of discrete movement is raised as a further challenge for future work. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science.
538	dynamical	2005	Wagenmakers, EJ; Farrell, S; Ratcliff, R	Human cognition and a pile of sand: A discussion on serial correlations and self-organized criticality	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Recently, G. C. Van Orden, J. G. Holden, and M. T. Turvey (2003) proposed to abandon the conventional framework of cognitive psychology in favor of the framework of nonlinear dynamical systems theory. Van Orden et al. presented evidence that "purposive behavior originates in self-organized criticality" (p. 333). Here, the authors show that Van Orden et al.'s analyses do not test their hypotheses. Further, the authors argue that a confirmation of Van Orden et al.'s hypotheses would not have constituted firm evidence in support of their framework. Finally, the absence of a specific model for how self-organized criticality produces the observed behavior makes it very difficult to derive testable predictions. The authors conclude that the proposed paradigm shift is presently unwarranted.
539	dynamical	1999	Tabor, W; Tanenhaus, MK	Dynamical models of sentence processing	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We suggest that the theory of dynamical systems provides a revealing general framework for modeling the representations and mechanism underlying syntactic processing. We show how a particular dynamical model, the Visitation Set Gravitation model of Tabor, Juliano, and Tanenhaus (1997), develops syntactic representations and models a set of contingent frequency effects in parsing that ore problematic for other models. We also present new simulations showing how the model accounts for semantic effects in parsing, and propose a new account of the distinction between syntactic and semantic incongruity. The results show how symbolic structures useful in parsing arise as emergent properties of connectionist dynamical systems.
540	dynamical	2009	McClelland, JL	The Place of Modeling in Cognitive Science	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	I consider the role of cognitive modeling in cognitive science. Modeling, and the computers that enable it, are central to the field, but the role of modeling is often misunderstood. Models are not intended to capture fully the processes they attempt to elucidate. Rather, they are explorations of ideas about the nature of cognitive processes. In these explorations, simplification is essential-through simplification, the implications of the central ideas become more transparent. This is not to say that simplification has no downsides; it does, and these are discussed. I then consider several contemporary frameworks for cognitive modeling, stressing the idea that each framework is useful in its own particular ways. Increases in computer power (by a factor of about 4 million) since 1958 have enabled new modeling paradigms to emerge, but these also depend on new ways of thinking. Will new paradigms emerge again with the next 1,000-fold increase?
541	dynamical	2010	Stepp, N; Turvey, MT	On strong anticipation	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	We examine Dubois's [Dubois,D., 2003. Mathematical foundations of discrete and functional systems with strong and weak anticipations. Lecture Notes in Computer Science 2684, 110-132.] distinction between weak anticipation and strong anticipation. Anticipation is weak if it arises from a model of the system via internal simulations. Anticipation is strong if it arises from the system itself via lawful regularities embedded in the system's ordinary mode of functioning. The assumption of weak anticipation dominates cognitive science and neuroscience and in particular the study of perception and action. The assumption of strong anticipation, however, seems to be required by anticipation's ubiquity. It is, for example, characteristic of homeostatic processes at the level of the organism, organs, and cells. We develop the formal distinction between strong and weak anticipation by elaboration of anticipating synchronization, a phenomenon arising from time delays in appropriately coupled dynamical systems. The elaboration is conducted in respect to (a) strictly physical systems, (b) the de. ning features of circadian rhythms, often viewed as paradigmatic of biological behavior based in internal models, (c) Pavlovian learning, and (d) forward models in motor control. We identify the common thread of strongly anticipatory systems and argue for its significance in furthering understanding of notions such as "internal", "model" and "prediction". (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
542	dynamical	2005	Paine, RW; Tani, J	How hierarchical control self-organizes in artificial adaptive systems	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Diverse, complex, and adaptive animal behaviors are achieved by organizing hierarchically structured controllers in motor systems. The levels of control progress from simple spinal reflexes and central pattern generators through to executive cognitive control in the frontal cortex. Various types of hierarchical control structures have been introduced and shown to be effective in past artificial agent models, but few studies have shown how such structures can self-organize. This study describes how such hierarchical control may evolve in a simple recurrent neural network model implemented in a mobile robot. Topological constraints on information flow are found to improve system performance by decreasing interference between different parts of the network. One part becomes responsible for generating lower behavior primitives while another part evolves top-down sequencing of the primitives for achieving global goals. Fast and slow neuronal response dynamics are automatically generated in specific neurons of the lower and the higher levels, respectively. A hierarchical neural network is shown to outperform a comparable single-level network in controlling a mobile robot.
543	dynamical	2006	Shanahan, M	A cognitive architecture that combines internal simulation with a global workspace	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	This paper proposes a brain-inspired cognitive architecture that incorporates approximations to the concepts of consciousness, imagination, and emotion. To emulate the empirically established cognitive efficacy of conscious as opposed to non-conscious information processing in the mammalian brain, the architecture adopts a model of information flow from global workspace theory. Cognitive functions such as anticipation and planning are realised through internal simulation of interaction with the environment. Action selection, in both actual and internally simulated interaction with the environment, is mediated by affect. An implementation of the architecture is described which is based on weightless neurons and is used to control a simulated robot. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
544	dynamical	2000	Markman, AB; Dietrich, E	Extending the classical view of representation	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Representation has always been a central part of models in cognitive science, but this idea has come under attack. Researchers advocating the alternative approaches of perceptual symbol systems, situated action, embodied cognition, and dynamical systems have argued against central assumptions of the classical representational approach to mind. We review the core assumptions of the representational view and these four suggested alternatives. We argue that representation should remain a core part of cognitive science, but that the insights from these alternative approaches must incorporated into models of cognitive processing.
545	dynamical	1997	Clark, A	The dynamical challenge	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Recent studies such as Thelen and Smith (1994), Kelso, (1995), Van Gelder, (1995), Beer, (1995), and others have presented a forceful case for a dynamical systems approach to understanding cognition and adaptive behavior. These studies call into question some foundational assumptions concerning the nature of cognitive scientific explanation and (in particular) the role of notions such as internal representation and computation. These are exciting and important challenges. But they must be handled with care. It is all too easy, in this debate, to lose sight of the explanatorily important issues and to talk at cross-purposes, courtesy of the (surprisingly) various ways in which different theorists often conceive the key terms. The primary goal of the present paper is thus a modest one: to begin to clarify just what is at issue and to highlight some of the most central and pressing concerns. In so doing, we may hope to develop a constructive framework for future debate. In addition, I try to open up a space of intermediate options-ways in which dynamical and representational/computational understandings may sometimes afford complementary (rather than competing) perspectives on adaptive success.
546	dynamical	1992	VEREIJKEN, B; WHITING, HTA; BEEK, WJ	A DYNAMIC-SYSTEMS APPROACH TO SKILL ACQUISITION	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY SECTION A-HUMAN EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper argues that the answer to the question, what has to be learned, needs to be established before the question, how is it learned, can be meaningfully addressed. Based on this conviction, some of the limitations of current and past research on skill acquisition are discussed. Motivated by the dynamical systems approach, the question of "what has to be learned" was tackled by setting up a non-linear mathematical model of the task (i.e. learning to make sideways movements on a ski apparatus). On the basis of this model, the phase lag between movements of the platform of the apparatus and the actions of the subject was isolated as an ensemble variable reflecting the timing of the subject in relation to the dynamics of the apparatus. This variable was subsequently used to study "how" the task was learned in a discovery learning experiment, in which predictions stemming from the model were tested and confirmed. Overall, these findings provided support for the hypothesis, formulated by Bernstein (1967), that one of the important effects of practice is learning to make use of reactive forces, thereby reducing the need for active muscular forces. In addition, the data from a previous learning experiment on the ski apparatus-the results of which had been equivocal-were reconsidered. The use of phase lag as a dependent variable provided a resolution of those findings. On the basis of the confirmatory testing of predictions stemming from the model and the clarification of findings from a previous experiment, it is argued that the dynamical systems approach put forward here provides a powerful method for pursuing issues in skill acquisition. Suggestions are made as to how this approach can be used to systematically pursue the questions that arise as a natural outcome of the experimental evidence presented here.
547	dynamical	2008	Schoner, G	Dynamical Systems Approaches to Cognition	CAMBRIDGE HANDBOOK OF COMPUTATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY	0
548	dynamical	2000	Saltzman, E; Byrd, D	Task-dynamics of gestural timing: Phase windows and multifrequency rhythms	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	In this paper, we explore the hypothesis that intergestural phasing relations are implemented via coupling terms in a nonlinear dynamical systems model. Specifically. we describe recent computational developments of the task-dynamic model of gestural patterning (e.g., E. Saltzman, J. A. S. Kelso, Psychological Review 94 (1987) 84-106; E. Saltzman, K. G. Munhall, Ecological Psychology 1 (1989) 333-382) that are focused on modeling the timing of rhythmic action units. First, we explore the possibility of attractor states for intergestural phasing that are characterized as ranges or phase windows (D. Byrd, Phonology 13 (1996) 139-169), and contrast this behavior with standard models that display punctate relative phasing. It is argued that the phase window approach can provide flexible control of the relative timing of articulatory gestures, allowing constrained variability in intergestural timing as a function of linguistic and para-linguistic factors. Second, we discuss how this extension of the task-dynamic model has been adapted for modeling the production of multifrequency rhythms (speech or bimanual). This work explores the control of the frequency- and phase-locking characteristics of coupled limit cycle oscillators by examining how desired frequency ratio, intrinsic frequency detuning, and coupling asymmetries interact in creating observed rhythmic patterns. Using this method, details of the resultant transient and steady-state trajectories of phase and amplitude are generated that are not available using models derived with averaging techniques. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
549	dynamical	2000	Sternad, D; Dean, WJ; Schaal, S	Interaction of rhythmic and discrete pattern generators in single-joint movements	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	The study investigates a single-joint movement task that combines a translatory and cyclic component with the objective to investigate the interaction of discrete and rhythmic movement elements. Participants performed an elbow movement in the horizontal plane, oscillating at a prescribed frequency around one target and shifting to a second target upon a trigger signal, without stopping the oscillation. Analyses focused on extracting the mutual influences of the rhythmic and the discrete component of the task. Major findings are: (1) The onset of the discrete movement was confined to a limited phase window in the rhythmic cycle. (2) Its duration was influenced by the period of oscillation. (3) The rhythmic oscillation was "perturbed" by the discrete movement as indicated by phase resetting. On the basis of these results we propose a model for the coordination of discrete and rhythmic actions (K. Matsuoka, Sustained oscillations generated by mutually inhibiting neurons with adaptations, Biological Cybernetics 52 (1985) 367-376; Mechanisms of frequency and pattern control in the neural rhythm generators, Biological Cybernetics 56 (1987) 345-353). For rhythmic movements an oscillatory pattern generator is developed following models of half-center oscillations (D. Bullock, S. Grossberg, The VITE model: a neural command circuit for generating arm and articulated trajectories, in: J.A.S. Kelso, A.J. Mandel, M. F. Shlesinger (Eds.), Dynamic Patterns in Complex Systems. World Scientific. Singapore. 1988. pp. 305-326). For discrete movements a point attractor dynamics is developed close to the VITE model For each joint degree of freedom both pattern generators co-exist but exert mutual inhibition onto each other. The suggested modeling framework provides a unified account for both discrete and rhythmic movements on the basis of neuronal circuitry. Simulation results demonstrated that the effects observed in human performance can be replicated using the two pattern generators with a mutually inhibiting coupling. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
550	dynamical	1992	GLOBUS, GG	TOWARD A NONCOMPUTATIONAL COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	The near universally accepted theory that the brain processes information persists in current neural network theory where there is "subsymbolic" computation (Smolensky, 1988) on distributed representations. This theory of brain information processing may suffice for simplifying models simulated in silicon but not for living neural nets where there is ongoing chemical tuning of the input/output transfer function at the nodes, connection weights, network parameters, and connectivity. Here the brain continually changes itself as it intersects with information from the outside. An alternative theory to information processing is developed in which the brain permits and supports "participation" of self and other as constraints on the dynamically evolving, self-organizing whole. The noncomputational process of "differing and deferring" in nonlinear dynamic neural systems is contrasted with Black's (1991) account of molecular information processing. State hyperspace for the noncomputational process of nonlinear dynamical systems, unlike classical systems, has a fractal dimension. The noncomputational model is supported by suggestive evidence for fractal properties of the brain.
551	dynamical	2009	Busemeyer, JR; Wang, Z; Lambert-Mogiliansky, A	Empirical comparison of Markov and quantum models of decision making	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	There are at least two general theories for building probabilistic-dynamical systems: one is Markov theory and another is quantum theory. These two mathematical frameworks share many fundamental ideas, but they also differ in some key properties. On the one hand, Markov theory obeys the law of total probability, but quantum theory does not: on the other hand, quantum theory obeys the doubly stochastic law, but Markov theory does not. Therefore, the decision about whether to use a Markov or a quantum system depends on which of these laws are empirically obeyed in an application. This article derives two general methods for testing these theories that are parameter free, and presents a new experimental test. The article concludes with a review of experimental findings from cognitive psychology that evaluate these two properties. (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
552	dynamical	2009	Passos, P; Araujo, D; Davids, K; Gouveia, L; Serpa, S; Milho, J; Fonseca, S	Interpersonal Pattern Dynamics and Adaptive Behavior in Multiagent Neurobiological Systems: Conceptual Model and Data	JOURNAL OF MOTOR BEHAVIOR	Ecological dynamics characterizes adaptive behavior as an emergent, self-organizing property of interpersonal interactions in complex social systems. The authors conceptualize and investigate constraints on dynamics of decisions and actions in the multiagent system of team sports. They studied coadaptive interpersonal dynamics in rugby union to model potential control parameter and collective variable relations in attacker-defender dyads. A videogrammetry analysis revealed how some agents generated fluctuations by adapting displacement velocity to create phase transitions and destabilize dyadic subsystems near the try line. Agent interpersonal dynamics exhibited characteristics of chaotic attractors and informational constraints of rugby union boxed dyadic systems into a low dimensional attractor. Data suggests that decisions and actions of agents in sports teams may be characterized as emergent, self-organizing properties, governed by laws of dynamical systems at the ecological scale. Further research needs to generalize this conceptual model of adaptive behavior in performance to other multiagent populations.
553	dynamical	2012	Petersson, KM; Folia, V; Hagoort, P	What artificial grammar learning reveals about the neurobiology of syntax	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	In this paper we examine the neurobiological correlates of syntax, the processing of structured sequences, by comparing FMRI results on artificial and natural language syntax. We discuss these and similar findings in the context of formal language and computability theory. We used a simple right-linear unification grammar in an implicit artificial grammar learning paradigm in 32 healthy Dutch university students (natural language FMRI data were already acquired for these participants). We predicted that artificial syntax processing would engage the left inferior frontal region (BA 44/45) and that this activation would overlap with syntax-related variability observed in the natural language experiment. The main findings of this study show that the left inferior frontal region centered on BA 44/45 is active during artificial syntax processing of well-formed (grammatical) sequence independent of local subsequence familiarity. The same region is engaged to a greater extent when a syntactic violation is present and structural unification becomes difficult or impossible. The effects related to artificial syntax in the left inferior frontal region (BA 44/45) were essentially identical when we masked these with activity related to natural syntax in the same subjects. Finally, the medial temporal lobe was deactivated during this operation, consistent with the view that implicit processing does not rely on declarative memory mechanisms that engage the medial temporal lobe. In the context of recent FMRI findings, we raise the question whether Broca's region (or subregions) is specifically related to syntactic movement operations or the processing of hierarchically nested non-adjacent dependencies in the discussion section. We conclude that this is not the case. Instead, we argue that the left inferior frontal region is a generic on-line sequence processor that unifies information from various sources in an incremental and recursive manner, independent of whether there are any processing requirements related to syntactic movement or hierarchically nested structures. In addition, we argue that the Chomsky hierarchy is not directly relevant for neurobiological systems. (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
554	dynamical	2013	Schmittmann, VD; Cramer, AOJ; Waldorp, LJ; Epskamp, S; Kievit, RA; Borsboom, D	Deconstructing the construct: A network perspective on psychological phenomena	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In psychological measurement, two interpretations of measurement systems have been developed: the reflective interpretation, in which the measured attribute is conceptualized as the common cause of the observables, and the formative interpretation, in which the measured attribute is seen as the common effect of the observables. We advocate a third interpretation, in which attributes are conceptualized as systems of causally coupled (observable) variables. In such a view, a construct like 'depression' is not seen as a latent variable that underlies symptoms like 'lack of sleep' or 'fatigue', and neither as a composite constructed out of these symptoms, but as a system of causal relations between the symptoms themselves (e.g., lack of sleep -> fatigue, etc.). We discuss methodological strategies to investigate such systems as well as theoretical consequences that bear on the question in which sense such a construct could be interpreted as real. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
555	dynamical	2004	Ito, M; Tani, J	On-line imitative interaction with a humanoid robot using a dynamic neural network model of a mirror system	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	This study presents experiments on the imitative interactions between a small humanoid robot and a user. A dynamic neural network model of a mirror system was implemented in a humanoid robot, based on the recurrent neural network model with parametric bias (RNNPB). The experiments showed that after the robot learns multiple cyclic movement patterns as embedded in the RNNPB, it can regenerate each pattern synchronously with the movements of a human who is demonstrating the corresponding movement pattern in front of the robot. Further, the robot exhibits diverse interactive responses when the user demonstrates novel cyclic movement patterns. Those responses were analyzed and categorized. We propose that the dynamics of coherence and incoherence between the robot's and the user's movements could enhance close interactions between them, and that they could also explain the essential psychological mechanism of joint attention.
556	dynamical	1999	Li, L; van den Bogert, ECH; Caldwell, GE; van Emmerik, REA; Hamill, J	Coordination patterns of walking and running at similar speed and stride frequency	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	The present study compared walking and running constrained to one speed (2.24 m/s) and the average of preferred walking and running stride frequency. Lower extremity coordination was assessed, using phase plots, relative phase and variability analysis. Angular excursions, phase plots, patterns of relative phase and variability analysis illustrated similar segmental and joint coordination patterns for walking and running. Under the speed and stride frequency constraints, we observed topological similarity in coordination patterns between the thigh and leg in walking and running, which co-existed with functional differences throughout the gait cycle, especially in the transition from stance to swing phase. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
557	dynamical	1998	Boker, SM; Graham, J	A dynamical systems analysis of adolescent substance abuse	MULTIVARIATE BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH	Models from dynamical systems theory were fit to the intraindividual variability in adolescent self-reported cigarette and alcohol use. A dampened linear oscillator model (potentially like a pendulum with friction) and a nonlinear oscillator model with two attractors were compared. The nonlinear oscillator model and two coupled oscillators for cigarette and alcohol use were rejected. Independent dampened linear oscillators for smoking and drinking provided high internal R-2, but were unable to account for a substantial correlation between the acceleration in cigarette usage and alcohol usage; thus evidence was found for an intrinsic self-regulation mechanism in both smoking and drinking behavior, but the hypothesis was rejected that the intrinsic mechanism leading to increases in use in one substance directly predicted increased use in the other substance. Given the hypothesis of in dependent linear oscillators; the sign of the dampening parameter was found to be positive, indicating a system with dynamic instability; a self-regulation mechanism in which small changes in substance use lead to amplified changes after a short period of time.
558	dynamical	2011	Gibbs, RW	Evaluating Conceptual Metaphor Theory	DISCOURSE PROCESSES	A major revolution in the study of metaphor occurred 30 years ago with the introduction of "conceptual metaphor theory" (CMT). Unlike previous theories of metaphor and metaphorical meaning, CMT proposed that metaphor is not just an aspect of language, but a fundamental part of human thought. Indeed, most metaphorical language arises from preexisting patterns of metaphorical thought or conceptual metaphors. This article provides an evaluation of the linguistic and psychological evidence supporting CMT, and responds to some of the criticisms of CMT offered by scholars within cognitive science. Some new ways of thinking of conceptual metaphors from the perspective of embodied simulations and dynamical systems theory are also presented.
559	dynamical	2011	Travassos, B; Araujo, D; Vilar, L; McGarry, T	Interpersonal coordination and ball dynamics in futsal (indoor football)	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	Here, we report an investigation of the patterned movement behavior of players for a specific sub-phase of the game of futsal, namely when the goalkeeper for the attacking team is substituted with an extra outfield player. The movement trajectories of the ball and players were recorded in both lateral and longitudinal directions and investigated using relative phase analysis. Some differences in phase relations between different playing dyads were noted, indicating specificity of phase attractions, or otherwise, for certain players. In general terms, the defenders demonstrated strong in-phase attractions with the ball and with each other, whereas weaker phase attractions, indicated by increased relative phase variability, were observed for the attackers and ball, as well as between attackers themselves. These results demonstrate different coordination dynamics for the defending and attacking dyads, from which we interpret evidence for different playing sub-systems consistent with different team objectives linked together in an overarching game structure. In keeping with dynamical systems theory for complex systems, we view this sub-phase of futsal as being characterized by coordinated behavior patterns that emerge as a result of self-organizing processes. These dynamic patterns are generated within functional constraints, with players and teams exerting mutual influence on each other. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
560	dynamical	2002	Monno, A; Temprado, JJ; Zanone, PG; Laurent, M	The interplay of attention and bimanual coordination dynamics	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	Despite their common origin, studies on motor coordination and on attentional load have developed into separate fields of investigation, bringing out findings, methods, and theories which are diverse if not mutually exclusive. Sitting at the intersection of these two fields, this article addresses the issue of behavioral flexibility by investigating how intention modifies the stability of existing patterns of coordination between moving limbs. It addresses the issue, largely ignored until now, of the attentional cost incurred by the central nervous system (CNS) in maintaining a coordination pattern at a given level of stability, ill particular under different attentional priority requirements. The experimental paradigm adopted in these studies provides an original mix of a classical measure of attentional load, namely, reaction time, and of a dynamic approach to coordination, most suitable for characterizing the dynamic properties of coordinated behavior and behavioral change. Findings showed that central cost and pattern stability covary, suggesting that bimanual coordination and the attentional activity of the CNS involved in maintaining such a coordination bear on the same underlying dynamics. Such a conclusion provides a strong support to a unified approach to coordination encompassing a conceptualization in terms of information processing and another, more recent framework rooted in self-organization theories and dynamical systems models (C) 2002 Published by Elsevier Science B.V.
561	dynamical	2000	Singer, RN	Performance and human factors: considerations about cognition and attention for self-paced and externally-paced events	ERGONOMICS	The cognitive psychology school of thought has spawned models of sequential stages or phases of information processing associated with various tasks. It has encouraged the study of cognitions and attention as related to learning, performance and high levels of achievement in goal-directed complex activities in which movement is the medium of expression. Although more recently proposed dynamical systems models challenge the simplicity of this approach, there is little doubt that the ability to learn as well as to excel in performing movement skills depends to a great degree on the effective self-regulation of cognitive processes in a variety of situations. What to think about (or not think about) prior to, during and even after an event can have great consequences on present and subsequent performance. Relevant externally-provided and self-generated strategies should enable these processes to function at an optimal level, and are the subject of an increasing amount of research. For such purposes, it is convenient to categorize events as self-paced (closed) and externally-paced (open). Examples of both types of events exist in sport as well as in various occupations and recreational activities, with different information processing demands associated with each one. Any breakdown in a particular stage of processing will potentially lead to poorer performance. Special training techniques and strategies are evolving from the cognitive and psychophysiological research literature that might improve the level of functioning at each stage for either self-paced or externally-paced skills.
562	dynamical	2009	Araujo, D; Davids, K	Ecological approaches to cognition and action in sport and exercise: Ask not only what you do, but where you do it	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	In recent decades, concepts and ideas from James J. Gibson's theory of direct perception in ecological psychology have been applied to the study of how perception and action regulate sport performance. This article examines the influence of different streams of thought in ecological psychology for studying cognition and action in The diverse behavioural contexts of sport and exercise. In discussing the origins of ecological psychology, it can be concluded that psychologists Such as Lewin, and to some extent Heider, provided the initial impetus for the development of key ideas. We argue that The papers in this special issue clarify, that the different schools of thinking in ecological psychology have much to contribute to theoretical and practical developments in sport and exercise psychology For example, Gibson emphasized and formalized how the individual is coupled with the environment, Brunswik raised the issue of the ontology of probability in human behaviour and the problem of representative design for experimental task constraints; Barker looked carefully into extra-individual behavioural contexts and Bronfenbrenner presented insights pertinent to the relations between behaviour contexts, and macro influences on behaviour In this overview, we highlight essential issues from the main schools of thought of relevance to the contexts of sport and exercise, and we consider some potential theoretical linkages with dynamical systems theory.
563	dynamical	2002	Donker, SF; Beek, PJ	Interlimb coordination in prosthetic walking: effects of asymmetry and walking velocity	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	The present study focuses on interlimb coordination in walking with an above-knee prosthesis using concepts and tools of dynamical systems theory (DST). Prosthetic walkers are an interesting group to investigate from this theory because their locomotory system is inherently asymmetric, while, according to DST, coordinative stability may be expected to be reduced as a function of the asymmetry of the oscillating components. Furthermore, previous work on locomotion motivated from DST has shown that the stability of interlimb coordination increases with walking velocity, leading to the additional expectation that the anticipated destabilizing effect of the prosthesis-induced asymmetry may be diminished at higher walking velocities. To examine these expectations, an experiment was conducted aimed at comparing interlimb coordination during treadmill walking between seven participants with an above-knee prosthesis and seven controls across a range of walking velocities. The observed gait patterns were analyzed in terms of standard gait measures (i.e., absolute and relative swing, stance and step times) and interlimb coordination measures (i.e., relative phase and frequency locking). As expected, the asymmetry brought about by the prosthesis led to a decrease in the stability of the coordination between the legs as compared to the control group, while coordinative stability increased with increasing walking velocity in both groups in the absence of a significant interaction. In addition, the 2:1 frequency coordination between arm and leg movements that is generally observed in healthy walkers at low walking velocities was absent in the prosthetic walkers. Collectively, these results suggest that both stability and adaptability of coordination are reduced in prosthetic walkers but may be enhanced by training them to walk at higher velocities. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
564	dynamical	2004	Temprado, JJ; Laurent, M	Attentional load associated with performing and stabilizing a between-persons coordination of rhythmic limb movements	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	This study addressed the issue of intentional stabilization of between-persons coordination patterns (in-phase/isodirectional and anti-phase/non-isodirectional) and the attentional cost incurred by the nervous system in maintaining and further stabilizing these coordination patterns. Five pairs of participants performed in-phase and anti-phase interpersonal coordination patterns in dual-task conditions (coordination + RT task). Results showed that: (1) isodirectional pattern (in-phase) was more stable than non-isodirectional pattern (anti-phase), (2) both iso-and non-isodirectional pattern were stabilized intentionally, (3) RT was lower for the isodirectional pattern (i.e., the most stable), and (4) attentional manipulation led to a trade-off between pattern stability and RT performance. These results suggest that performing between-persons coordination patterns incurs a central cost that depends on the coupling strength between the limbs. These findings are consistent with the previous studies in intrapersonal coordination. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
565	dynamical	2001	Zanone, PG; Monno, A; Temprado, JJ; Laurent, M	Shared dynamics of attentional cost and pattern stability	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	This paper examines the informational activity devoted by the CNS to couple oscillating limbs in order to sustain and stabilize bimanual coordination patterns. Through a double-task paradigm associating a bimanual coordination task and a reaction time (RT) task, we investigated the relation between the stability of preferred bimanual coordination patterns and the central cost expended by the CNS for their stabilization. Ten participants performed in-phase and anti-phase coordination patterns in a dual task condition (coordination + RT) at several frequencies (0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 1.5, and 2.0 Hz), thereby decreasing the stability of the bimanual patterns. Results showed a U-shaped evolution of pattern stability and attentional cost, as a function of oscillation frequency, exhibiting a minimum value at the same frequency. These findings indicate that central cost and pattern stability covary and may share common, high order dynamics. Moreover, the attentional focus given to the bimanual coordination and the RT task was also manipulated by requiring either shared attention or priority to the coordination task. Such a manipulation led to a tradeoff between pattern stability and RT performance: The more stable the pattern, the more costly it is to stabilize. This suggests that stabilizing a coordination pattern incurs a central cost that depends on its intrinsic stability. Conceptual consequences of these results for understanding the relationship between attention and coordination are drawn, and the mechanisms putatively at work in dual tasks are discussed. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
566	dynamical	1996	Eliasmith, C	The third contender: A critical examination of the dynamicist theory of cognition	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In a recent series of publications, dynamicist researchers have proposed a new conception of cognitive functioning. This conception is intended to replace the currently dominant theories of connectionism and symbolicism. The dynamicist approach to cognitive modeling employs concepts developed in the mathematical field of dynamical systems theory. They claim that cognitive models should be embedded, low-dimensional, complex, described by coupled differential equations, and non-representational. In this paper I begin with a short description of the dynamicist project and its role as a cognitive theory. Subsequently, I determine the theoretical commitments of dynamicists, critically examine those commitments and discuss current examples of dynamicist models. In conclusion, I determine dynamicism's relation to symbolicism and connectionism and find that the dynamicist goal to establish a new paradigm has yet to be realized.
567	dynamical	2010	Vallacher, RR; Coleman, PT; Nowak, A; Bui-Wrzosinska, L	Rethinking Intractable Conflict The Perspective of Dynamical Systems	AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST	Intractable conflicts are demoralizing. Beyond destabilizing the families, communities, or international regions in which they occur, they tend to perpetuate the very conditions of misery and hate that contributed to them in the first place. Although the common factors and processes associated with intractable conflicts have been identified through research, they represent an embarrassment of riches for theory construction. Thus, the current task in this area is integrating these diverse factors into an account that provides a coherent perspective yet allows for prediction and a basis for conflict resolution in specific conflict settings. We suggest that the perspective of dynamical systems provides such an account. This article outlines the key concepts and hypotheses associated with this approach. It is organized around a set of basic questions concerning intractable conflict for which the dynamical perspective offers fresh insight and testable propositions. The questions and answers are intended to provide readers with basic concepts and principles of complexity and dynamical systems that are useful for rethinking the nature of intractable conflict and the means by which such conflict can be transformed.
568	dynamical	2003	Hufford, MR; Witkiewitz, K; Shields, AL; Kodya, S; Caruso, JC	Relapse as a nonlinear dynamic system: Application to patients with alcohol use disorders	JOURNAL OF ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGY	Understanding the relapse process is one of the most important issues in addictive behaviors research. To date, most studies have taken a linear approach toward predicting relapse based on risk factors. Nonlinear dynamical systems theory can be used to describe processes that are not adequately modeled using a linear approach. In particular, the authors propose that catastrophe theory, a subset of nonlinear dynamical systems theory, can be used to describe the relapse process in addictive behaviors. Two small prospective studies using 6-month follow-ups of patients with alcohol use disorders (inpatient, n = 51; outpatient, n = 43) illustrate how cusp catastrophe theory may be used to predict relapse. Results from these preliminary studies indicate that a cusp catastrophe model has more predictive utility than traditional linear models.
569	dynamical	2000	Rueger, A	Physical emergence, diachronic and synchronic	SYNTHESE	This paper explicates two notions of emergence which are based on two ways of distinguishing levels of properties for dynamical systems. Once the levels are defined, the strategies of characterizing the relation of higher level to lower level properties as diachronic and synchronic emergence are the same. In each case, the higher level properties are said to be emergent if they are 'novel' or 'irreducible' with respect to the lower level properties. Novelty and irreducibility are given precise meanings in terms of the effects that the change of a bifurcation or perturbation parameter in the system has. (The same strategy can be applied to other ways of separating levels of properties, like the micro/macro distinction.) The notions of emergence developed here are notions of emergence in a weak sense: the higher level emergent properties we capture are always structural properties (or are realized in such properties), that is, they are defined in terms of the lower level properties and their relations. Diachronic and synchronic emergent properties are distinctions within the category of structural properties.
570	dynamical	2013	Cooke, NJ; Gorman, JC; Myers, CW; Duran, JL	Interactive Team Cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Cognition in work teams has been predominantly understood and explained in terms of shared cognition with a focus on the similarity of static knowledge structures across individual team members. Inspired by the current zeitgeist in cognitive science, as well as by empirical data and pragmatic concerns, we offer an alternative theory of team cognition. Interactive Team Cognition (ITC) theory posits that (1) team cognition is an activity, not a property or a product; (2) team cognition should be measured and studied at the team level; and (3) team cognition is inextricably tied to context. There are implications of ITC for theory building, modeling, measurement, and applications that make teams more effective performers.
571	dynamical	2011	Chow, JY; Davids, K; Hristovski, R; Araujo, D; Passos, P	Nonlinear pedagogy: Learning design for self-organizing neurobiological systems	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In this paper, key concepts in ecological psychology and nonlinear dynamics exemplify how learning design can be shaped by ideas of self-organization, meta-stability and self-organized criticality in complex neurobiological systems. Through interactions with specific ecological constraints in learning environments, cognition, decision making and action emerge. An important design strategy is the use of different types of noise to channel the learning process into meta-stable regions of the "learner-learning environment" system to encourage adaptive behaviors. Here learners can be exposed to many functional and creative performance solutions during training. Data from studies in the performance context of sports are used to illustrate how these theoretical ideas can underpin learning design. Based on these insights a nonlinear pedagogy is proposed in which the role of coaches or trainers alters from a more traditional, prescriptive stance to the mode of manipulating key interacting task constraints including information, space and equipment to facilitate learning. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
572	dynamical	2007	Diamond, LM	A Dynamical Systems Approach to the Development and Expression of Female Same-Sex Sexuality	PERSPECTIVES ON PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Researchers have documented substantial variability in the development and expression of same-sex sexuality, especially among women, posing challenges to traditional linear developmental models. In this article, I argue for a new approach to conceptualizing the development and expression of female same-sex sexuality over the life course, based in dynamical systems theory. Dynamical systems models seek to explain how complex patterns emerge, stabilize, change, and restabilize over time. Although originally developed by mathematicians and physicists to model complex physical phenomena in the natural world, they have increasingly been applied to social-behavioral phenomena, ranging from motor development to cognition to language. I demonstrate the utility of this approach for modeling change over time in female same-sex sexuality, reviewing extant published research and also introducing data collected from an ongoing, 10-year longitudinal study of young nonheterosexual women. I provide evidence that female same-sex sexuality demonstrates the emblematic features of a dynamical system: nonlinear change over time, spontaneous emergence of novel forms, and periodic reorganizations and phase transitions within the overall system. I highlight the specific contribution of a dynamical systems perspective for understanding such phenomena and suggest directions for future study.
573	dynamical	2000	Barela, JA; Whitall, J; Black, P; Clark, JE	An examination of constraints affecting the intralimb coordination of hemiparetic gait	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	A dynamical systems approach to the study of locomotor intralimb coordination in those with hemiparesis led to an examination of the utility of the shank-thigh relative phase (RP) as a collective variable and the identification of potential constraints that may shape this coordination. Eighteen non-disabled individuals formed three groups matched to the age and gender of six participants with chronic right hemiparesis. The three groups differed in the constraints imposed on their walking: (1) walking at their preferred walking speed; (2) walking as slowly as those with hemiparesis; and, (3) walking slowly with a right ankle-foot orthosis (AFO). The results revealed an asymmetry in intralimb coordination between the unaffected and affected leg of those with hemiparesis localized to the latter third of the gait cycle when the limb is advanced from the end of stance to the reestablishment of a new stance. Walking slowly with or without an AFO resulted in no measureable effect in the non-disabled, but accounts for 22% of the variance in the intralimb coordination of the hemiplegic's affected limb and 16% in the unaffected limb. The AFO offered little additional contribution. These results derive from shank-thigh RP that is shown to provide more information about intralimb coordination than knee angle displacement. Implications for these results and the use of RP for rehabilitation are discussed. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved. PsycINFO classification. 3297. 2330.
574	dynamical	1999	Sawyer, RK	The emergence of creativity	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper is an extended exploration of Mead's phrase "the emergence of the novel." I describe and characterize emergent systems-complex dynamical systems that display behavior that cannot be predicted from a full and complete description of the component units of the system. Emergence has become an influential concept in contemporary, cognitive science [A. Clark (1997) Being there, Cambridge: MIT Press], complexity theory [W. Bechtel & R.C. Richardson (1993) Discovering complexity, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press], artificial life [R.A. Brooks & P. Maes (Eds) (1994) Artificial life IV, Cambridge: MIT Press; C.G. Langton (d.) (1994) Artificial life III, Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley; C. G. Langton e: al. (Eds) (1991) Artificial life II, Reading, IMA: Addison-Wesley), and robotics [S. Fewest (1991) Emergent computation, Cambridge: MIT Press]. I propose that novelty is a necessary property of emergent systems, and I'll explore a specific kind of emergent system: an improvisational theater ensemble. This is an example of emergence in a small social group, which I call collaborative emergence to emphasize several important contrasts with other complex systems that manifest emergence, such as connectionist networks and Alife simulations.
575	dynamical	2013	Dale, R; Fusaroli, R; Duran, ND; Richardson, DC	The Self-Organization of Human Interaction	PSYCHOLOGY OF LEARNING AND MOTIVATION, VOL 59	We describe a "centipede's dilemma" that faces the sciences of human interaction. Research on human interaction has been involved in extensive theoretical debate, although the vast majority of research tends to focus on a small set of human behaviors, cognitive processes, and interactive contexts. The problem is that naturalistic human interaction must integrate all of these factors simultaneously, and grander theoretical mitigation cannot come only from focused experimental or computational agendas. We look to dynamical systems theory as a framework for thinking about how these multiple behaviors, processes, and contexts can be integrated into a broader account of human interaction. By introducing and utilizing basic concepts of self-organization and synergy, we review empirical work that shows how human interaction is flexible and adaptive and structures itself incrementally during unfolding interactive tasks, such as conversation, or more focused goal-based contexts. We end on acknowledging that dynamical systems accounts are very short on concrete models, and we briefly describe ways that theoretical frameworks could be integrated, rather than endlessly disputed, to achieve some success on the centipede's dilemma of human interaction.
576	dynamical	2006	Barandiaran, X; Moreno, A	On what makes certain dynamical systems cognitive: A minimally cognitive organization program	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Dynamicism has provided cognitive science with important tools to understand some aspects of "how cognitive agents work" but the issue of "what makes something cognitive" has not been sufficiently addressed yet and, we argue, the former will never be complete without the latter. Behavioristic characterizations of cognitive properties are criticized in favor of an organizational approach focused on the internal dynamic relationships that constitute cognitive systems. A definition of cognition as adaptive-autonomy in the embodied and situated neurodynamic domain is provided: the compensatory regulation of a web of stability dependencies between sensorimotor structures is created and preserved during a historical/developmental process. We highlight the functional role of emotional embodiment: internal bioregulatory processes coupled to the formation and adaptive regulation of neurodynamic autonomy. Finally, we discuss a "minimally cognitive behavior program" in evolutionary simulation modeling suggesting that much is to be learned from a complementary "minimally cognitive organization program".
577	dynamical	2012	Froese, T; Fuchs, T	The extended body: a case study in the neurophenomenology of social interaction	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	There is a growing realization in cognitive science that a theory of embodied intersubjectivity is needed to better account for social cognition. We highlight some challenges that must be addressed by attempts to interpret 'simulation theory' in terms of embodiment, and argue for an alternative approach that integrates phenomenology and dynamical systems theory in a mutually informing manner. Instead of 'simulation' we put forward the concept of the 'extended body', an enactive and phenomenological notion that emphasizes the socially mediated nature of embodiment. To illustrate the explanatory potential of this approach, we replicate an agent-based model of embodied social interaction. An analysis of the model demonstrates that the extended body can be explained in terms of mutual dynamical entanglement: inter-bodily resonance between individuals can give rise to self-sustaining interaction patterns that go beyond the behavioral capacities of isolated individuals by modulating their intra-bodily conditions of behavior generation.
578	dynamical	2007	Chow, SM; Ferrer, E; Nesselroade, JR	An unscented Kalman filter approach to the estimation of nonlinear dynamical systems models	MULTIVARIATE BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH	In the past several decades, methodologies used to estimate nonlinear relationships among latent variables have been developed almost exclusively to fit cross-sectional models. We present a relatively new estimation approach, the unscented Kalman filter (UKF), and illustrate its potential as a tool for fitting nonlinear dynamic models in two ways: (1) as a building block for approximating the log-likelihood of nonlinear state-space models and (2) to fit time-varying dynamic models wherein parameters are represented and estimated online as other latent variables. Furthermore, the substantive utility of the UKF is demonstrated using simulated examples of (1) the classical predator-prey model with time series and multiple-subject data, (2) the chaotic Lorenz system and (3) an empirical example of dyadic interaction.
579	dynamical	2004	Gernigon, C; d'Arripe-Longueville, F; Delignieres, D; Ninot, G	A dynamical systems perspective on goal involvement states in sport	JOURNAL OF SPORT & EXERCISE PSYCHOLOGY	Based on the dynamical systems perspective, the present study aimed to explore how states of involvement toward mastery, performance-approach, and performance-avoidance goals (Elliot & Church, 1997) flow, are interrelated, and are activated during a practice judo combat. Using a retrospective video recall method, two male national level judo competitors expressed on a computer their moment-to-moment level of involvement toward each goal. Self-confrontation interviews also based on the video were immediately conducted. Analyses of variance revealed differences in levels of each goal between periods of the combat. Windowed cross-correlation analyses showed that the patterns of relationships between the time series of the different goals considered two-by-two included either high positive, high negative, or zero correlations, depending on the moment. Qualitative data analyses supported these findings and suggested that goal involvement states emerged and fluctuated according to the ecological constraints of the situation, such as the initial contextual conditions and the course of action.
580	dynamical	2009	Freeman, WJ; Ahlfors, SP; Menon, V	Combining fMRI with EEG and MEG in order to relate patterns of brain activity to cognition	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PSYCHOPHYSIOLOGY	The common factor that underlies several types of functional brain imaging is the electric current of masses of dendrites. The prodigious demands for the energy that is required to drive the dendritic currents are met by hemodynamic and metabolic responses that are visualized with fMRI and PET techniques. The high current densities in parallel dendritic shafts and the broad distributions of the loop currents outside the dendrites generate both the scalp EEG and the magnetic fields seen in the MEG. The measurements of image intensities and potential fields provide state variables for modeling. The relationships between the intensities of current density and the electric, magnetic, and hemodynamic state variables are complex and far from proportionate. The state variables are complementary, because the information they convey comes from differing albeit overlapping neural populations, so that efforts to cross-validate localization of neural activity relating to specified cognitive behaviors have not always been successful. We propose an alternative way to use the three methods in combination through studies of hemisphere-wide, high-resolution spatiotemporal patterns of neural activity recorded non-invasively and analyzed with multivariate statistics. Success in this proposed endeavor requires specification of what patterns to look for. At the present level of understanding, an appropriate pattern is any significant departure from random noise in the spectral, temporal and spatial domains that can be scaled into the coarse-graining of time by fMRI/BOLD and the coarse-graining of space by EEG and MEG. Here the requisite patterns are predicted to be large-scale spatial amplitude modulation (AM) of synchronized neuronal signals in the beta and gamma ranges that are coordinated but not correlated with fMRI intensities. (c) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
581	dynamical	1996	Holt, KG; Obusek, JP; Fonseca, ST	Constraints on disordered locomotion. A dynamical systems perspective on spastic cerebral palsy	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	Upper motor neuron disorders (UMN) result in abnormal movement patterns that are due to spasticity, weakness, cocontraction of muscles, inappropriate timing of muscle activations in relation to maximal mechanical advantage, and changes in the mechanical properties of muscles and connective tissues, Since many of the patterns observed in gait are reminiscent of immature patterns in non-disabled toddlers, prolonged abnormal patterns are often viewed as a failure of normal neural maturation. Since the 1960's the emphasis of therapeutic interventions has been to 'normalize' the movement pattern through a variety of neurotherapeutic techniques. The efforts have met with limited success. Recently there have been a number of publications that have emphasized the possibility that the observed patterns may develop or be functional adaptations to a neural system that is not 'normal', and that the observed movement patterns in pathological populations may be normal and optimal for that system (Fetters, 1991; Holt, 1993; Latash and Anson, in press; Winter et al., 1990). Some authors have emphasized that alternative patterns develop and are facilitated by redundancy in the motor system (Latash and Anson, in press). Our emphasis has been to pursue the notion that pattern development and functional adaptations in locomotion are driven by the underlying dynamics of the task and the dynamic resources available to the individual. We use a model developed within the dynamical systems framework, the force-driven, pendulum-spring model of locomotion, to parse out the energy forms that are needed for continued oscillations, and relate the energy forms to the dynamics that are available to a disordered system, specifically, spastic cerebral palsy (CP). We then attempt to relate the available dynamics to the observed gait patterns. In this way. we seek to understand ordered and disordered gaits as alternative functional solutions to the dynamical requirements for continued cycling of a periodically forced oscillator. The implications of the theoretical model and experimental findings are discussed with respect to therapeutic intervention, and the dynamical systems approach.
582	dynamical	2002	Boker, SM	Consequences of continuity: The hunt for intrinsic properties within parameters of dynamics in psychological processes	MULTIVARIATE BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH	A little over three hundred years ago Sir Isaac Newton wrote of a simple set of relations that could be used to predict the motions of objects relative to one another. The main advantage of this insight was that the relationship between the movements of the planets and stars could be predicted much more simply than with the accurate, but cumbersome Ptolemaic calculations. But perhaps the most important consequence of the acceptance of Newton's insight was that intrinsic properties such as mass could be distinguished from measurements such as weight. The success of Newtonian mechanics led directly to the widespread use of parameters such as force, relative speed, and momentum as a way of understanding the dynamics of moving objects. A similar revolution in thinking appears to be underway in the behavioral sciences. It is likely that intensive longitudinal measurement coupled with dynamical systems analyses will lead to simplified but powerful models of the evolution of psychological processes. In this case, it is reasonable to expect that a set of intrinsic psychological properties may be able to be extracted from the parameters of successful dynamical systems models. The purpose of this article is to issue an invitation to the hunt, to provide a tentative map as to where the game might likely be found, and blow a call on the hunting horn.
583	dynamical	2014	Maes, PJ; Leman, M; Palmer, C; Wanderley, MM	Action-based effects on music perception	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The classical, disembodied approach to music cognition conceptualizes action and perception as separate, peripheral processes. In contrast, embodied accounts of music cognition emphasize the central role of the close coupling of action and perception. It is a commonly established fact that perception spurs action tendencies. We present a theoretical framework that captures the ways in which the human motor system and its actions can reciprocally influence the perception of music. The cornerstone of this framework is the common coding theory, postulating a representational overlap in the brain between the planning, the execution, and the perception of movement. The integration of action and perception in so-called internal models is explained as a result of associative learning processes. Characteristic of internal models is that they allow intended or perceived sensory states to be transferred into corresponding motor commands (inverse modeling), and vice versa, to predict the sensory outcomes of planned actions (forward modeling). Embodied accounts typically refer to inverse modeling to explain action effects on music perception (Leman, 2007). We extend this account by pinpointing forward modeling as an alternative mechanism by which action can modulate perception. We provide an extensive overview of recent empirical evidence in support of this idea. Additionally, we demonstrate that motor dysfunctions can cause perceptual disabilities, supporting the main idea of the paper that the human motor system plays a functional role in auditory perception. The finding that music perception is shaped by the human motor system and its actions suggests that the musical mind is highly embodied. However, we advocate for a more radical approach to embodied (music) cognition in the sense that it needs to be considered as a dynamical process, in which aspects of action, perception, introspection, and social interaction are of crucial importance.
584	dynamical	2008	Lopresti-Goodman, SM; Richardson, MJ; Silva, PL; Schmidt, RC	Period basin of entrainment for unintentional visual coordination	JOURNAL OF MOTOR BEHAVIOR	Researchers have demonstrated that a person's rhythmic movements can become unintentionally entrained to another person's rhythmic movements or an environmental event. There are indications, however, that in both cases the likelihood of entrainment depends on the difference between the uncoupled periods of the two rhythms. The authors examined the range of period differences over which unintentional visual coordination might occur in 16 participants (Experiment 1) and 15 participants (Experiment 2). Cross-spectral coherence analysis and the distribution of continuous relative phase revealed that visual entrainment decreased as the difference between participants' preferred period and the experimenter-determined period of the environmental stimulus increased. The present findings extend the dynamical systems perspective on person-environment coupling and highlight the significance of period difference to the emergence of unintentional coordination.
585	dynamical	1996	vanEmmerik, REA; Wagenaar, RC	Dynamics of movement coordination and tremor during gait in Parkinson's disease	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	Movement coordination, transition and stability aspects of gait in individuals with Parkinson's disease were investigated. Changes in movement coordination were evaluated by means of relative phase changes between upper and lower extremities and stability of patterns by means of the standard deviation of relative phase. Spectroscopic analysis of individual limb oscillators and of the relative phase between these oscillators was used to assess the contribution of lower and higher (e.g., tremor) frequency components on the coordination dynamics. Coordination changes in five patients and five age-matched controls were evaluated by means of accelerometry while movement velocity was manipulated as a control parameter on a motor-driven treadmill. Relative phase changes and stability features showed gradual changes in upper and lower extremity oscillations with walking velocity, a finding consistent with model predictions by Schoner et al. (1990) regarding gait changes in the quadrupedal walking mode. Parkinson's disease patients showed overall less adaptations in relative phase than the control group, especially those involving the upper extremities. Frequency analyses of relative phase also demonstrated that (a) systematic scaling of walking velocity can affect the dominant frequency of Parkinsonian tremor, (b) higher order frequency components in relative phase can play a functional, stabilizing role, and (c) 1/f scaling properties of the relative phase power spectrum can identify the higher degree of constraint on the coordination dynamics in Parkinson's disease.
586	dynamical	2008	Raczaszek-Leonardi, J; Kelso, JAS	Reconciling symbolic and dynamic aspects of language: Toward a dynamic psycholinguistics	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The present paper examines natural language as a dynamical system. The oft-expressed view of language as "a static system of symbols" is here seen as an element of a larger system that embraces the mutuality of symbols and dynamics. Following along the lines of the theoretical biologist H.H. Pattee, the relation between symbolic and dynamic aspects of language is expressed within a more general framework that deals with the role of information in biological systems. In this framework, symbols are seen as information-bearing entities that emerge under pressures of communicative needs and that serve as concrete constraints on development and communication. In an attempt to identify relevant dynamic aspects of such a system, one has to take into account events that happen on different time scales: evolutionary language change (i.e., a diachronic aspect), processes of communication (language use) and language acquisition. Acknowledging the role of dynamic processes in shaping and sustaining the structures of natural language calls for a change in methodology. In particular, a purely synchronic analysis of a system of symbols as "meaning-containing entities" is not sufficient to obtain answers to certain recurring problems in linguistics and the philosophy of language. A more encompassing research framework may be the one designed specifically for studying informationally based coupled dynamical systems (coordination dynamics) in which processes of self-organization take place over different time scales. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
587	dynamical	2006	Passos, P; Araujo, D; Davids, K; Gouveia, L; Serpa, S	Interpersonal dynamics in sport: The role of artificial neural networks and 3-D analysis	BEHAVIOR RESEARCH METHODS	In previous attempts to identify dynamical systems properties in patterns of play in team sports, only 2-D analysis methods have been used, implying that the plane of motion must be preselected and that movements out of the chosen plane are ignored. In the present study, we examined the usefulness of 3-D methods of analysis for establishing the presence of dynamical systems properties, such as phase transitions and symmetry-breaking processes in the team sport of rugby. Artificial neural networks (ANNs) were employed to reconstruct the 3-D performance space in a typical one-versus-one subphase of rugby. Results confirm that ANNs are reliable tools for reconstructing a 3-D performance space and may be instrumental in identifying pattern formation in team sports generally.
588	dynamical	1991	ROUSSELLE, C; WOLFF, PH	THE DYNAMICS OF BIMANUAL COORDINATION IN DEVELOPMENTAL DYSLEXIA	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	The temporal organization of symmetric and asymmetric bimanual coordination tasks was compared between dyslexic adults and normally reading controls by means of a dynamical systems research strategy. Both groups demonstrated the influence of the intrinsic dynamics of rhythmic motor behavior on the performance of asymmetric bimanual tasks. In normal readers, manual asymmetries of motor control had a significant effect on the relative phasing of finger movements; no such effects were observed in dyslexic subjects. Group differences are discussed in terms of the interaction between neurological constraints and dynamic principles of spontaneous pattern formation.
589	dynamical	2011	Stepp, N; Chemero, A; Turvey, MT	Philosophy for the Rest of Cognitive Science	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Cognitive science has always included multiple methodologies and theoretical commitments. The philosophy of cognitive science should embrace, or at least acknowledge, this diversity. <link rid="b6">Bechtel's (2009a) proposed philosophy of cognitive science, however, applies only to representationalist and mechanist cognitive science, ignoring the substantial minority of dynamically oriented cognitive scientists. As an example of nonrepresentational, dynamical cognitive science, we describe strong anticipation as a model for circadian systems (<link rid="b54">Stepp & Turvey, 2009). We then propose a philosophy of science appropriate to nonrepresentational, dynamical cognitive science.
590	dynamical	2010	Camras, LA; Shutter, JM	Emotional Facial Expressions in Infancy	EMOTION REVIEW	In this article, we review empirical evidence regarding the relationship between facial expression and emotion during infancy. We focus on differential emotions theory's view of this relationship because of its theoretical and methodological prominence. We conclude that current evidence fails to support its proposal regarding a set of pre-specified facial expressions that invariably reflect a corresponding set of discrete emotions in infants. Instead, the relationship between facial expression and emotion appears to be more complex. Some facial expressions may have different meanings in infants than in children and adults. In addition, nonemotion factors may sometimes lead to the production of "emotional" facial expressions. We consider alternative perspectives on the nature of emotion and emotional expression in infancy with particular focus on differentiation and dynamical systems approaches.
591	dynamical	2007	Chemero, A; Turvey, MT	Gibsonian affordances for roboticists	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Using hypersets as an analytic tool, we compare traditionally Gibsonian (Chemero 2003; Turvey 1992) and representationalist (Sahin et al. this issue) understandings of the notion 'affordance'. We show that representationalist understandings are incompatible with direct perception and erect barriers between animal and environment. They are, therefore, scarcely recognizable as understandings of 'affordance'. In contrast, Gibsonian understandings are shown to treat animal-environment systems as unified complex systems and to be compatible with direct perception. We discuss the fruitful connections between Gibsonian affordances and dynamical systems explanation in the behavioral sciences and point to prior fruitful application of Gibsonian affordances in robotics. We conclude that it is unnecessary to re-imagine affordances as representations in order to make them useful for researchers in robotics.
592	dynamical	2003	Nourrit, D; Delignieres, D; Caillou, N; Deschamps, T; Lauriot, B	On discontinuities in motor learning: A longitudinal study of complex skill acquisition on a ski-simulator	JOURNAL OF MOTOR BEHAVIOR	The qualitative behavioral reorganizations that occurred during the acquisition of a complex motor skill were examined. Five novice participants practiced for 39 sessions of ten 1-min trials on a modified version of the ski-simulator. Analyses focused on the motion of the apparatus platform, modeled as a self-sustained oscillator. At the beginning of the experiment, all participants adopted a behavior that could be modeled with a highly nonlinear stiffness function and a Rayleigh damping function. The behavior in the final part of the experiment was captured by a qualitatively different model, with a linear stiffness function and a van der Pol damping behavior. The transition from the initial to the final model was gradual and was marked in most cases by an abrupt increase of oscillation frequency. During the transition stage, the 2 damping behaviors seemed alternately exploited within each trial. The results are discussed in the framework of the dynamical systems approach to motor coordination and learning, considering motor skill acquisition as a phase transition.
593	dynamical	2012	Meehan, TP; Bressler, SL	Neurocognitive networks: Findings, models, and theory	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	Through its early history, cognitive neuroscience largely followed a modular paradigm wherein high-level cognitive functions were mapped onto locally segregated brain regions. However, recent evidence drives a continuing shift away from modular theories of cognitive brain function, and toward theories which hold that cognition arises from the integrated activity of large-scale, distributed networks of brain regions. A growing consensus favors the fundamental concept of this new paradigm: the large-scale cognitive brain network, or neurocognitive network. This consensus was the motivation for Neurocognitive Networks 2010 (NCN 2010), a conference sponsored by the Cognitive Neuroscience Program of the National Science Foundation, organized by Drs. Steven Bressler and Craig Richter of Florida Atlantic University (FAU), and held at FAU in Boca Raton, FL on January 29-30, 2010. NCN 2010 gathered together some of today's leading investigators of neurocognitive networks. This paper serves to review their presentations as they relate to the paradigm of neurocognitive networks, as well as to compile the emergent themes, questions, and possible future research directions that arose from the conference. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
594	dynamical	2004	Fell, J	Identifying neural correlates of consciousness: The state space approach	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	This article sketches an idealized strategy for the identification of neural correlates of consciousness. The proposed strategy is based on a state space approach originating from the analysis of dynamical systems. The article then focuses on one constituent of consciousness, phenomenal awareness. Several rudimentary requirements for the identification of neural correlates of phenomenal awareness are suggested. These requirements are related to empirical data on selective attention, on completely intrinsic selection and on globally unconscious states. As an example, neuroscientific findings on synchronized gamma activity are categorized according to these requirements. (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
595	dynamical	2002	van Rooij, I; Bongers, RM; Haselager, WFG	A non-representational approach to imagined action	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This study addresses the dynamical nature of a "representation-hungry" cognitive task involving an imagined action. In our experiment, participants were handed rods that systematically increased or decreased in length on subsequent trials. Participants were asked to judge whether or not they thought they could reach for a distant object with the hand-held rod. The results are in agreement with a dynamical model, extended from Tuller, Case, Ding, and Kelso (1994). The dynamical effects observed in this study suggest that predictive judgments regarding the possibility or impossibility of a certain action can be understood in terms of dynamically evolving basins of attraction instead of as depending on representational structures. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
596	dynamical	2001	Faith, M; Thayer, JF	A dynamical systems interpretation of a dimensional model of emotion	SCANDINAVIAN JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	The dimensional structure of emotion was investigated using self reports of induced mood and idiographic and nomothetic analyses. Subjects attended four experimental sessions during which an array of affective states was induced via auditory, visual, and imaginal channels. For each of 118 stimulus events, subjects self-rated their response. Factor analysis yielded the predicted bipolar factors of valence and arousal: these were obtained in group-aggregated analysis and subsequently confirmed as change dimensions at the intraindividual level. Controversy over the fundamental dimensions of affective space was considered with respect to methodological issues such as factor rotation and sampling of data space. Valence and arousal are discussed as motivational, driving parameters of affective experience and a dynamical systems conceptualization of emotion is proposed.
597	dynamical	2001	Boker, SM	Differential structural equation modeling of intraindividual variability	NEW METHODS FOR THE ANALYSIS OF CHANGE	0
598	dynamical	2011	Seifert, L; Leblanc, H; Herault, R; Komar, J; Button, C; Chollet, D	Inter-individual variability in the upper-lower limb breaststroke coordination	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	The aim of the present study was to examine inter-individual variability in upper-lower limb breaststroke coordination. First, inter-individual variability was compared between recreational and comparative swimmers. Second, as recreational swimmers revealed more variable inter-limb coordination than competitive swimmers, inter-individual variability was assessed among recreational swimmers to identify coordination profiles. The elbow-knee continuous relative phase (CRP) was used to analyze upper-lower limbs coupling during a breaststroke cycle. Twenty-four recreational and twenty-four competitive swimmers swam 25 m at 80% of their maximal speed. Underwater and aerial side views were mixed and genlocked. Angular position, velocity and CRP were calculated for the knee and elbow joints by digitizing body markers from the side view. The kinematics of three cycles were filtered, averaged and normalized in terms of percentage of total cycle duration. The topography of the mean CRP curve of the recreational swimmers resembled a W-shape', whereas an 'inverse U-shape' was seen in the competitive swimmers. However, higher inter-individual variability was observed among the recreational swimmers than among the competitive swimmers (38.1 degrees vs. 19.4 degrees; p < .05), suggesting that several profiles of inter-limb coordination may exist in recreational swimmers. Coordination profiling showed that three clusters could classify the recreational swimmers. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
599	dynamical	2010	Pincus, D; Metten, A	Nonlinear Dynamics in Biopsychosocial Resilience	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS PSYCHOLOGY AND LIFE SCIENCES	Theory and methodology from nonlinear dynamical systems (AIDS) may provide considerable advantage to health scientists as well as health care professionals. For instance, NDS methodologies and topics in health care share a focus upon the potentially complex interactions of biological, psychological and social factors over time. Nevertheless, a number of challenges remain in creating the necessary bridges in understanding to allow researchers to apply NDS techniques and to enable practitioners to use the resulting evidence to improve patient care. This article aims to provide such a bridge. First, common concepts pertaining to self-organizing complex adaptive systems are outlined as a general approach to understanding resilience across biological, psychological, and social scales. Next, four data analytic techniques from NDS are compared and contrasted with respect to the information they may provide about some common processes underlying resilience. These techniques are: time-series analysis, state-space grids, catastrophe modeling, and network modeling. Implications for health scientists and practitioners are discussed.
600	dynamical	2009	Tilsen, S	Multitimescale Dynamical Interactions Between Speech Rhythm and Gesture	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Temporal patterns in human movement, and in speech in particular, occur on multiple timescales. Regularities in such patterns have been observed between speech gestures, which are relatively quick movements of articulators (e.g., tongue fronting and lip protrusion), and also between rhythmic units (e.g., syllables and metrical feet), which occur more slowly. Previous work has shown that patterns in both domains can be usefully modeled with oscillatory dynamical systems. To investigate how rhythmic and gestural domains interact, an experiment was conducted in which speakers performed a phrase repetition task, and gestural kinematics were recorded using electromagnetic articulometry. Variance in relative timing of gestural movements was correlated with variance in rhythmic timing, indicating that gestural and rhythmic systems interact in the process of planning and producing speech. A model of rhythmic and gestural planning oscillators with multifrequency coupling is presented, which can simulate the observed covariability between rhythmic and gestural timing.
601	ecological	1998	Greeno, JG	The situativity of knowing, learning, and research	AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST	The situative perspective shifts the focus of analysis from individual behavior and cognition to larger systems that include behaving cognitive agents interacting with each other and with other subsystems in the environment, The first section presents a version of the situative perspective that draws on studies of social interaction, philosophical situation theory, and ecological psychology. Framing assumptions and concepts are proposed for a synthesis of the situative and cognitive theoretical perspectives, and a further situative synthesis is suggested that would draw on dynamic-systems theory. The second section discusses relations between the situative, cognitive, and behaviorist theoretical perspectives and principles of educational practice, The third section discusses an approach to research and social practice called interactive research and design, which fits with the situative perspective and provides a productive, albeit syncretic, combination of theory-oriented and instrumental functions of research.
602	ecological	1994	GREENO, JG	GIBSONS AFFORDANCES	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Gibson developed an interactionist view of perception and action that focused on information that is available in the environment. He thereby rejected the still-prevalent framing assumption of factoring external-physical and internal-mental processes. The interactionist alternative, which focuses on processes of agent-situation interactions, is taken in ecological psychology as well as in recent research on conversational communication, research on complex, socially organized activity, and philosophical situation theory. The concepts of affordance and ability are key ideas in an interactionist account. In situation theory, abilities in activity depend on attunements to constraints, and affordances for an agent can be understood as conditions in the environment for constraints to which the agent is attuned. This broad view of affordances includes affordances that are recognized as well as affordances that are perceived directly.
603	ecological	2006	Araujo, D; Davids, K; Hristovski, R	The ecological dynamics of decision making in sport	PSYCHOLOGY OF SPORT AND EXERCISE	Objectives: The aim of this position paper is to consider the decision-making process as an integral part of goal-directed behaviour influenced by functional constraints at the scale of the environment-athlete relationship. To achieve this aim we discuss relevant theoretical ideas from ecological psychology, focusing particularly on ecological dynamics, as a contrast to more traditional perspectives on decision-making behaviour. To support the argumentation we briefly describe some recent empirical data from studies of sports that emphasise this alternative. perspective on decision making. We conclude that traditional approaches analyse decisions as if they were not grounded, i.e., expressed behaviourally through actions in performance contexts. It is argued that an ecological approach should analyse affordances or action possibilities, when studying cognition in sport, demanding an integration of theories and ideas from the natural sciences in order to understand concepts like information and intentionality. Conclusion: Decision-making behaviour is best considered at the level of the performer-environment relationship and viewed as emerging from the interactions of individuals with environmental constraints over time towards specific functional goals. (C) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
604	ecological	1993	YOUNG, MF	INSTRUCTIONAL-DESIGN FOR SITUATED LEARNING	ETR&D-EDUCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT	The design of situated learning must be closely linked to the ecological psychology of ''situated cognition, '' as exemplified by problem solving in a complex situated context, the Jasper Series. The extreme view of situated learning contends that all thinking must be viewed as situated, and is therefore better explained by concepts of perception and action than by the concepts of information processing psychology. In this article, ideas of ecological psychology provide the background for describing four broad tasks for the design of situated learning: selecting the situations, providing scaffolding, determining and supporting the role of the teacher, and assessing situated learning. Further, three metrics for evaluating situated learning are suggested: affording transfer, providing meaning, and providing an anchor for cross-curricular investigation.
605	ecological	2007	Becker, DV; Kenrick, DT; Neuberg, SL; Blackwell, KC; Smith, DM	The confounded nature of angry men and happy women	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Findings of 7 studies suggested that decisions about the sex of a face and the emotional expressions of anger or happiness are not independent: Participants were faster and more accurate at detecting angry expressions on mate faces and at detecting happy expressions on female faces. These findings were robust across different stimulus sets and judgment tasks and indicated bottom-up perceptual processes rather than just top-down conceptually driven ones. Results from additional studies in which neutrally expressive faces were used suggested that the connections between masculine features and angry expressions and between feminine features and happy expressions might be a property of the sexual dimorphism of the face itself and not merely a result of gender stereotypes biasing the perception.
606	ecological	2002	Barab, SA; Plucker, JA	Smart people or smart contexts? Cognition, ability, and talent development in an age of situated approaches to knowing and learning	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGIST	Intelligence, expertise, ability and talent, as these terms have traditionally been used in education and psychology, are socially agreed upon labels that minimize the dynamic, evolving, and contextual nature of individual-environment relations. These hypothesized constructs can instead be described as functional relations distributed across whole persons and particular contexts through which individuals appear knowledgeably skillful. The purpose of this article is to support a concept of ability and talent development that is theoretically grounded in 5 distinct, yet interrelated, notions: ecological psychology, situated cognition, distributed cognition, activity theory, and legitimate peripheral participation. Although talent may be reserved by some to describe individuals possessing exceptional ability and ability may be described as an internal trait, in our description neither ability nor talent are possessed. Instead, they are treated as equivalent terms that can be used to describe functional transactions that are situated across person-in-situation. Further, and more important, by arguing that ability is part of the individual-environment transaction, we take the potential to appear talented out of the hands (or heads) of the few and instead treat it as an opportunity that is available to all although it may be actualized more frequently by some.
607	ecological	1995	COSTALL, A	SOCIAL AFFORDANCES	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	Modern disciplines both reflect and perpetuate a basic dualism. The natural sciences deal with a 'material world', abstracted from human concerns, while the social sciences have, in their turn, constructed a world of 'agents' disconnected from material things. James Gibson's theory of affordances was an attempt to counter this deep schism in modern thought by emphasizing the material conditions of human activity. He came to see that psychology, as traditionally conceived, was itself a creation of dualistic thinking. Yet, Gibson failed to engage in a corresponding exploration of the sociality of the material. This paper examines the reasons why Gibson retained a dualism of the natural and socio-cultural in his theory; points to some of the ways in which the concept of affordances should be socialized; and, finally, raises the question: what would ecological psychology stand to lose if all affordances were social?
608	ecological	2006	Marsh, KL; Richardson, MJ; Baron, RM; Schmidt, RC	Contrasting approaches to perceiving and acting with others	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	How and why the presence of a person directly affects the perception and action of another person is a phenomenon that has been approached in a limited and piecemeal fashion within psychology. This kind of diffuse strategy has failed to capture the jointness of perception and action within and between people. In contradistinction, the authors offer a perspective that retains both integrally social features (e.g., involves interaction) and yet adequately exploits the current state of knowledge regarding the ecological properties of perception-action, while at the same time drawing on aspects of dynamic systems theory. In this article the authors review the best attempts to examine how one individual affects another's perceptions and actions in the emergence of a social unit of action. Two important approaches, the individual-level and cognitive dynamics approaches, have yielded insights that derive in significant degree from principles of ecological psychology and/or dynamical systems theory. Prototypic of the individual-level approach is a focus on what can be perceived by coactors with the aim of uncovering how the dispositional qualities (affordances) of another person are informationally specified during social interaction. In contrast, the cognitive dynamics approach simulates dynamical characteristics of cognition and psychological influence with the aim of uncovering how cooperative interaction emerges out of its component parts. The authors argue that these approaches involve, respectively, insufficient mutuality and insufficient embodiment. Consequently, a social synergy perspective is discussed that approaches the problem of socially cooperative interaction at the relational, nonreductive level, using novel methods to examine how social perception and action emerge through self-organizing processes.
609	ecological	1998	Zahorik, P; Jenison, RL	Presence as being-in-the-world	PRESENCE-TELEOPERATORS AND VIRTUAL ENVIRONMENTS	An alternative view of presence is introduced based on existential philosophy and ecological psychology. This view favors a Heideggerian/Gibsonian metaphysic over the more conventional rationalistic orientation, In this alternative view, notions of subjective presence and objective Presence no longer exist, Presence is instead tied to one's successfully supported action in the environment, this environment being either virtual or real. The coupling between perception and action is crucial for determining the extent to which actions are successfully supported. It is argued that this alternative view provides needed guidance and simplification for the evaluation of presence.
610	ecological	2009	Fajen, BR; Riley, MA; Turvey, MT	Information, affordances, and the control of action in sport	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	The theory of affordances, a conceptual pillar of the ecological approach to perception and action, has The potential to become a guiding principle for research on perception and action in sport. Affordances are opportunities for action. They describe the environment in terms of behaviors that are possible at a given moment tinder a given set of conditions. Affordances capture the tight coupling between perception and action, and allow for The prospective and moment-to-moment control of activity that is characteristic of fluent, fast-paced behavior on the playing field. We begin with an overview of the ecological approach and the principle of direct perception, using past research on interceptive action to illustrate how this principle has been put to work to capture information-movement relations in perceptual-motor skill. We then review theory and research on body-scaled, action-scaled, and social affordances, highlighting outstanding questions that provide opportunities for new research on affordances in the context of sport. We conclude with consideration of affordances as providing a functional semantics for sports.
611	ecological	1998	Taga, G	A model of the neuro-musculo-skeletal system for anticipatory adjustment of human locomotion during obstacle avoidance	BIOLOGICAL CYBERNETICS	Theoretical studies on human locomotion have shown that a stable and flexible gait emerges from the dynamic interaction between the rhythmic activity of a neural system composed of a neural rhythm generator (RG) and the rhythmic movement of the musculo-skeletal system. This study further explores the mechanism of the anticipatory control of locomotion based on the emergent properties of a neural system that generates the basic pattern of gait. A model of the neuro-musculo-skeletal system to execute the task of stepping over a visible obstacle with both limbs during walking is described. The RG in the neural system was combined with a system referred to as a discrete movement generator (DM), which receives both the output of the RG and visual information regarding the obstacle and generates discrete signals for modification of the basic gait pattern. A series of computer simulations demonstrated that an obstacle placed at an arbitrary position can be cleared by sequential modifications of gait: (1) modulating the step length when approaching the obstacle and (2) modifying the trajectory of the swing limbs while stepping over it. This result suggests that anticipatory adjustments are produced not by the unidirectional flow of the information from visual signals to motor commands but by the bi-directional circulation of information between the DM and the RG. The validity of this model is discussed in relation to motor cortical activity during anticipatory modifications in cats and the ecological psychology of visuo-motor control in humans.
612	ecological	2008	Markus, ML; Silver, MS	A Foundation for the Study of IT Effects: A New Look at DeSanctis and Poole's Concepts of Structural Features and Spirit	JOURNAL OF THE ASSOCIATION FOR INFORMATION SYSTEMS	Journal the Association for Information Systems Gerardine DeSanctis and Marshall Scott Poole made an important contribution to the study of IT uses and effects with their insightful concepts of "structural features" and "spirit." Unlike their concept of "appropriation," which has found broad acceptance in the IS community, the concepts of structural features and spirit have not been widely used. Published concerns that the concepts are not consistent with basic assumptions in Giddens' structuration theory, on which the concepts were based, could account for their neglect. However, concepts like structural features and spirit are indispensable for any program of research that attempts to show how IT artifacts can, together with other influences, contribute to the consequences of IT use. Addressing the criticisms that have been leveled against these concepts is, therefore, important. In this paper we unpack DeSanctis and Poole's concepts and propose redefining them as three new concepts: technical objects, functional affordances, and symbolic expressions. We believe this reconceptualization addresses several concerns about the original concepts, while retaining the core insights of DeSanctis and Poole's innovative analysis.
613	ecological	1998	Thelen, E; Spencer, JP	Postural control during reaching in young infants: A dynamic systems approach	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	We conceptualize the coordinated development of posture and reaching within Schoner's (Ecological Psychology, 7:291-314, 1995) dynamic model of coupled levels of control: load, timing, and goal. In particular, the goal of postural stability must be maintained during a reach. Using longitudinal data from four infants followed from 3 weeks to 1 year, we show that coordination of the head with upper and lower arm activity is critical for successful reaching. First, infants acquire stable head control several weeks before reaching onset. Furthermore, reaching onset is characterized by a reorganization of muscle patterns to include more trapezius and deltoid activity, serving to stabilize the head and shoulder and provide a stable base from which to reach. We argue that initially, the system is working on postural stability and reaching as goals. Infants secondarily select appropriate muscle patterns to achieve those goals depending, in part, on their individual body sizes, body proportions and energy levels. Motor development proceeds as a continual dialogue between the nervous system, body, and environment. (C) 1998 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
614	ecological	1997	Handford, C; Davids, K; Bennett, S; Button, C	Skill acquisition in sport: Some applications of an evolving practice ecology	JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCES	This paper builds on recent theoretical concerns regarding traditional conceptualizations of the skill acquisition process. The implications for the process of practice in sport contexts are explored with reference to the information-processing approach to motor behaviour and the newer ecological paradigm. Issues are raised with current principles of practice based on traditional theoretical ideas. A practice strategy that gives greater weight to the guided exploration of the practice workspace jointly defined by the properties of the individual's subsystems, the specific task and the environment is advocated. Such a constraints-led perspective supersedes previous distinctions between rudimentary and voluntary skills. Sports scientists, coaches, teachers and movement rehabilitation therapists are invited to review current practices in the light of recent theoretical advances from the ecological perspective.
615	ecological	1995	Schoner, G	Recent developments and problems in human movement science and their conceptual implications	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Behavioral, neurophysiological, and theoretical lines of research are briefly reviewed, opening to scrutiny a number of conceptual questions: What does it mean that the central nervous system controls a variable? In which sense can the central nervous system be said to use particular coordinate systems? What do we mean when we talk about levels of nervous control of movement? What are dimensions of behavior? Are planning and execution separate domains of movement science? To exemplify these issues, trajectory formation is discussed as a model system, around which answers to these problems can be attempted. The theoretical language used in chat attempt is that of the dynamic approach to understanding coordination. The role of ecological psychology in a renewed effort to arrive at a unified, here dynamic, account of action is discussed.
616	ecological	2008	Knoblich, G; Sebanz, N	Evolving intentions for social interaction: from entrainment to joint action	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	This article discusses four different scenarios to specify increasingly complex mechanisms that enable increasingly flexible social interactions. The key dimension on which these mechanisms differ is the extent to which organisms are able to process other organisms' intentions and to keep them apart from their own. Drawing on findings from ecological psychology, scenario 1 focuses on entrainment and simultaneous affordance in 'intentionally blind' individuals. Scenario 2 discusses how an interface between perception and action allows observers to simulate intentional action in others. Scenario 3 is concerned with shared perceptions, arising through joint attention and the ability to distinguish between self and other. Scenario 4 illustrates how people could form intentions to act together while simultaneously distinguishing between their own and the other's part of a joint action. The final part focuses on how combining the functionality of the four mechanisms can explain different forms of social interactions. It is proposed that basic interpersonal processes are put to service by more advanced functions that support the type of intentionality required to engage in joint action, cultural learning, and communication.
617	ecological	1994	CAIRD, JK; HANCOCK, PA	THE PERCEPTION OF ARRIVAL TIME FOR DIFFERENT ONCOMING VEHICLES AT AN INTERSECTION	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	We make an appeal to bring the theoretical tools of ecological psychology to focus on road-traffic accidents that result from making left turns. Following a review of previous arrival-time literature, we report an experiment that was conducted in a fixed-base driving simulator to determine the perceptual basis for judgments to turn left. We manipulated the arrival time (T(a)) of an oncoming vehicle, the viewing distance to that vehicle, and the type of oncoming vehicle. Forty-eight participants were randomly assigned to a group in which a motorcycle, a compact car, a full-size car, or a delivery truck represented the oncoming vehicle. There were equal numbers of male and female participants in the four groups. As T(a) was increased, underestimation of vehicle T(a) also increased. Significant main effects were found for T(a), gender of participants, vehicle type, and viewing distance; significant effects were also found for interactions for gender by T(a) and gender by vehicle type. Men and women differed in their accuracy of judgments for vehicle types; men were more accurate in estimating the arrival of delivery vans and motorcycles than women. The accuracy of T(a) estimation for the type of the approach vehicle and distance removed suggests that participants used vehicle-size information in their judgments. We present a discussion of a number of ''disappearance methodological issues and research applications.
618	ecological	2010	Hutchins, E	Cognitive Ecology	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Cognitive ecology is the study of cognitive phenomena in context. In particular, it points to the web of mutual dependence among the elements of a cognitive ecosystem. At least three fields were taking a deeply ecological approach to cognition 30 years ago: Gibson's ecological psychology, Bateson's ecology of mind, and Soviet cultural-historical activity theory. The ideas developed in those projects have now found a place in modern views of embodied, situated, distributed cognition. As cognitive theory continues to shift from units of analysis defined by inherent properties of the elements to units defined in terms of dynamic patterns of correlation across elements, the study of cognitive ecosystems will become an increasingly important part of cognitive science.
619	ecological	2007	Araujo, D; Davids, K; Passos, P	Ecological validity, representative design, and correspondence between experimental task constraints and behavioral setting: Comment on Rogers, Kadar, and Costall (2005)	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Using the term ecological validity, in a recent issue of Ecological Psychology, Rogers, Kadar, and Costall (2005) discussed how the simulator they used could provide data by replicating natural road driving behaviors. However, ecological validity, as Brunswik (1956) conceived it, refers to the validity of a cue (i.e., perceptual variable) in predicting a criterion state of the environment. Like other psychologists in the past, Rogers et al. (2005) confused this term with another of Brunswik's terms: representative design. In this comment, the authors clarify the distinction between these concepts and also discuss how Gibsonian ideas can strengthen understanding of the correspondence between experimental task constraints and behavioral settings outside the laboratory. The main implication of this theoretical rationalization is for the development of a measurable correspondence between experimental and behavioral contexts, enabling defensible generalization to both organisms and environments beyond the bounds of particular experiments.
620	ecological	2006	Davids, K; Button, C; Araujo, D; Renshaw, I; Hristovski, R	Movement models from sports provide representative task constraints for studying adaptive behavior in human movement systems	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Researchers studying adaptive behavior in human movement systems have traditionally employed simplified, laboratory-based movement models in an effort to conserve experimental rigor. Brunswikian psychology raises questions over the representativeness of many of these popular experimental models for studying how movements are coordinated with events, objects, and surfaces of dynamic environments. In this article we argue that sports provide rich ecological constraints for representative task design in modeling the complex interactions of human performers with their environments. Adopting a functionalist perspective enriched by ideas from ecological psychology and nonlinear dynamics, we consider data from exemplar movement models in basketball and boxing to support this contention. We show that this preference for movement models from sports, although not completely novel, has accelerated over recent years, mainly due to the theoretical re-emphasis on studying the interaction of individual and task constraints. The implications of using such applied models of movement behavior in studying the design of natural and artificial systems are also discussed.
621	ecological	2000	Michaels, CF	Information, perception, and action: What should ecological psychologists learn from Milner and Goodale (1995)?	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Two issues motivated the reassessment of a core concept of ecological psychology: the relation between perception and action. The first was Milner and Goodale's (1995) claim, based on neurological and behavioral evidence, that vision for perception is distinct from vision for action. The second was the apparent involvement of lower order, nonspecific optical variables in the control of action as reported by Michaels, Zeinstra, and Oudejans (in press). Perception in the usual ecological sense of the detection of information is obviously needed for action; however, to the extent that perception is defined in terms of explicit knowledge or awareness of environmental properties, including animal-referential ones, a separation was deemed justified. Perception, so construed, together with the ventral stream, was suggested to be about telling rather than acting.
622	ecological	1995	Michaels, C; Beek, P	The state of ecological psychology	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In this article we discuss the state of ecological psychology, broadly defined as the branch of science dealing with the coordination of activity with respect to perceptual information. Three theoretical approaches to this theme are distinguished: direct perception, kinetic theory, and pattern dynamics. After a brief summary of these approaches, we critically review their merits and limitations with regard to four problem areas, namely, the identification of the essential variables of perception and action, the empirical testing of models and hypotheses concerning these variables, the theoretical and methodological response to the variability of perception and action, and the theoretical and methodological response to lasting changes in perception and action during learning and development. A plea is made for the identification of multiple alternative variables for a specific problem, the rigorous construction and empirical testing of models in which these alternatives are considered, and the development of new theoretical constructs and model constructs to deal with the variability of perception and action as well as the changes that accompany learning and development.
623	ecological	2011	Becker, DV; Anderson, US; Mortensen, CR; Neufeld, SL; Neel, R	The Face in the Crowd Effect Unconfounded: Happy Faces, Not Angry Faces, Are More Efficiently Detected in Single- and Multiple-Target Visual Search Tasks	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Is it easier to detect angry or happy facial expressions in crowds of faces? The present studies used several variations of the visual search task to assess whether people selectively attend to expressive faces. Contrary to widely cited studies (e. g., Ohman, Lundqvist, & Esteves, 2001) that suggest angry faces "pop out" of crowds, our review of the literature found inconsistent evidence for the effect and suggested that low-level visual confounds could not be ruled out as the driving force behind the anger superiority effect. We then conducted 7 experiments, carefully designed to eliminate many of the confounding variables present in past demonstrations. These experiments showed no evidence that angry faces popped out of crowds or even that they were efficiently detected. These experiments instead revealed a search asymmetry favoring happy faces. Moreover, in contrast to most previous studies, the happiness superiority effect was shown to be robust even when obvious perceptual confounds-like the contrast of white exposed teeth that are typically displayed in smiling faces-were eliminated in the happy targets. Rather than attribute this effect to the existence of innate happiness detectors, we speculate that the human expression of happiness has evolved to be more visually discriminable because its communicative intent is less ambiguous than other facial expressions.
624	ecological	1993	BERRY, DS; WERO, JLF	ACCURACY IN FACE PERCEPTION - A VIEW FROM ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY	It is well documented that people form reliable and robust impressions of a stranger's personality traits on the basis of facial appearance. The propensity to judge character from the face is typically thought to reflect cultural beliefs about mythical relations between aspects of facial appearance and personality. However, recent cross-cultural and developmental research does not support the mythical, cultural stereotype hypothesis. An alternative explanation of the data is that consensus in face-based impressions exists because those judgments are partially accurate. In this article, we explore the theoretical rationale for this ''kernel-of-truth'' hypothesis, review research that indicates that first impressions based on facial appearance are partially accurate, and discuss the potential mechanisms that may yield links between aspects of facial appearance and personality.
625	ecological	2003	Scarantino, A	Affordances explained	PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE	I examine the central theoretical construct of ecological psychology, the concept of an affordance. In the first part of the paper, I illustrate the role affordances play in Gibson's theory of perception. In the second part, I argue that affordances are to be understood as dispositional properties, and explain what I take to be their characteristic background circumstances, triggering circumstances and manifestations. The main purpose of my analysis is to give affordances a theoretical identity enriched by Gibson's visionary insight, but independent of the most controversial claims of the Gibsonian movement.
626	ecological	2000	Saltzman, E; Byrd, D	Task-dynamics of gestural timing: Phase windows and multifrequency rhythms	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	In this paper, we explore the hypothesis that intergestural phasing relations are implemented via coupling terms in a nonlinear dynamical systems model. Specifically. we describe recent computational developments of the task-dynamic model of gestural patterning (e.g., E. Saltzman, J. A. S. Kelso, Psychological Review 94 (1987) 84-106; E. Saltzman, K. G. Munhall, Ecological Psychology 1 (1989) 333-382) that are focused on modeling the timing of rhythmic action units. First, we explore the possibility of attractor states for intergestural phasing that are characterized as ranges or phase windows (D. Byrd, Phonology 13 (1996) 139-169), and contrast this behavior with standard models that display punctate relative phasing. It is argued that the phase window approach can provide flexible control of the relative timing of articulatory gestures, allowing constrained variability in intergestural timing as a function of linguistic and para-linguistic factors. Second, we discuss how this extension of the task-dynamic model has been adapted for modeling the production of multifrequency rhythms (speech or bimanual). This work explores the control of the frequency- and phase-locking characteristics of coupled limit cycle oscillators by examining how desired frequency ratio, intrinsic frequency detuning, and coupling asymmetries interact in creating observed rhythmic patterns. Using this method, details of the resultant transient and steady-state trajectories of phase and amplitude are generated that are not available using models derived with averaging techniques. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
627	ecological	2011	Durning, SJ; Artino, AR	Situativity theory: A perspective on how participants and the environment can interact: AMEE Guide no. 52	MEDICAL TEACHER	Situativity theory refers to theoretical frameworks which argue that knowledge, thinking, and learning are situated (or located) in experience. The importance of context to these theories is paramount, including the unique contribution of the environment to knowledge, thinking, and learning; indeed, they argue that knowledge, thinking, and learning cannot be separated from (they are dependent upon) context. Situativity theory includes situated cognition, situated learning, ecological psychology, and distributed cognition. In this Guide, we first outline key tenets of situativity theory and then compare situativity theory to information processing theory; we suspect that the reader may be quite familiar with the latter, which has prevailed in medical education research. Contrasting situativity theory with information processing theory also serves to highlight some unique potential contributions of situativity theory to work in medical education. Further, we discuss each of these situativity theories and then relate the theories to the clinical context. Examples and illustrations for each of the theories are used throughout. We will conclude with some potential considerations for future exploration. Some implications of situativity theory include: a new way of approaching knowledge and how experience and the environment impact knowledge, thinking, and learning; recognizing that the situativity framework can be a useful tool to ""diagnose"" the teaching or clinical event; the notion that increasing individual responsibility and participation in a community (i.e., increasing ""belonging"") is essential to learning; understanding that the teaching and clinical environment can be complex (i.e., non-linear and multi-level); recognizing that explicit attention to how participants in a group interact with each other (not only with the teacher) and how the associated learning artifacts, such as computers, can meaningfully impact learning.</.
628	ecological	2012	Withagen, R; de Poel, HJ; Araujo, D; Pepping, GJ	Affordances can invite behavior: Reconsidering the relationship between affordances and agency	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The concept of agency has been central to ecological approaches to psychology. Gibson, one of the founders of this movement, made room for this concept by arguing against the mechanistic conceptions in psychology. In his view, the environment is not a collection of causes that pushes the animal around, but consist of action possibilities, which he coined affordances. In making their way in the world, animals regulate their behavior with respect to these possibilities. Reed later developed this ecological conception of agency, following Gibson in conceiving of affordances as action possibilities. However, drawing upon industrial design, architecture, and phenomenology, we argue that affordances are not mere action possibilities but that they can also invite behavior. We suggest a mutualist perspective on invitations, suggesting that they depend on the animal-environment relationship in multiple dimensions. The implications of this new conception of affordances for the ecological account of agency are explored. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
629	ecological	1997	Wade, MG; Jones, G	The role of vision and spatial orientation in the maintenance of posture	PHYSICAL THERAPY	This article reviews and analyzes the role of vision and spatial orientation in maintaining posture and balance. The key issues that relate to the development of postural control across the life span are discussed. Use of vision as a critical source of information that specifies spatial orientation in the environment is considered. We argue that the visual system functions as part of the perception-action cycle as promoted in ecological psychology by James Gibson. We compare and contrast theory and evidence of both standard and ecological accounts of how the visual system perceives the information and the findings relative to the role of the retinal vision in processing and acting on information related to motion. Changes in the ambient optical array (optical flow) as a non-force field are compared with gravity-based perturbations relative to the possible influence of the non-force field to changes in the motor system. Finally, a summary of some of our own work is presented, with comments about implications for further research and possible applications to clinical practice.
630	ecological	1983	SHOTTER, J	DUALITY OF STRUCTURE AND INTENTIONALITY IN AN ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	JOURNAL FOR THE THEORY OF SOCIAL BEHAVIOUR	0
631	ecological	2009	Araujo, D; Davids, K	Ecological approaches to cognition and action in sport and exercise: Ask not only what you do, but where you do it	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	In recent decades, concepts and ideas from James J. Gibson's theory of direct perception in ecological psychology have been applied to the study of how perception and action regulate sport performance. This article examines the influence of different streams of thought in ecological psychology for studying cognition and action in The diverse behavioural contexts of sport and exercise. In discussing the origins of ecological psychology, it can be concluded that psychologists Such as Lewin, and to some extent Heider, provided the initial impetus for the development of key ideas. We argue that The papers in this special issue clarify, that the different schools of thinking in ecological psychology have much to contribute to theoretical and practical developments in sport and exercise psychology For example, Gibson emphasized and formalized how the individual is coupled with the environment, Brunswik raised the issue of the ontology of probability in human behaviour and the problem of representative design for experimental task constraints; Barker looked carefully into extra-individual behavioural contexts and Bronfenbrenner presented insights pertinent to the relations between behaviour contexts, and macro influences on behaviour In this overview, we highlight essential issues from the main schools of thought of relevance to the contexts of sport and exercise, and we consider some potential theoretical linkages with dynamical systems theory.
632	ecological	1996	Sundstrom, E; Bell, PA; Busby, PL; Asmus, C	Environmental psychology 1989-1994	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY	A review of research and theory on transactions between people and physical environments emphasizes new contributions to theory and empirical research published in major journals of environmental psychology, 1989-1994. Theories focused on arousal, load, stress, privacy-regulation, behavior settings, and transactional analysis; new theory increasingly incorporated situational and contextual variables. Empirical research emphasized field settings over the laboratory and employed increasingly diverse methods, populations, and cultures. Environmental design studies integrated scientific and applied goals through post-occupancy evaluation. New findings concerned features of residences, work places, hospitals, schools, prisons, and larger community environments. New studies also addressed environmental stressors (e.g. temperature, noise); effects of attitudes and behaviors on conservation, crime, pollution, and hazards; and issues for neighborhoods, public places, and natural environments. Directions for the future include integrated theory to guide research, more design experiments, and development of conventions for case studies.
633	ecological	1998	Duchon, AP; Warren, WH; Kaelbling, LP	Ecological robotics	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	There are striking parallels between ecological psychology and the new trends in robotics and computer vision, particularly regarding how agents interact with the environment. We present some ideas from ecological psychology, including control laws using optic flow, affordances, and action modes, and describe our implementation of these concepts in two mobile robots that can avoid obstacles and chase or flee moving targets solely by using optic flow. The properties of these methods were explored further in simulation. This work ties in with that of others who argue for a methodological approach in robotics that forgoes a central model or planner. Not only might ecological psychology contribute to robotics, but robotic implementations might, in turn, provide a test bed for ecological principles and a source of ideas that could be tested in animals and humans.
634	ecological	1992	WILLIAMS, AM; DAVIDS, K; BURWITZ, L; WILLIAMS, JG	PERCEPTION AND ACTION IN SPORT	JOURNAL OF HUMAN MOVEMENT STUDIES	The current debate on the relationship between perception and action has aroused considerable interest within the movement sciences. Contemporary developments in ecological psychology have raised significant questions over the process-oriented focus of cognitive psychology, advocating a shift in the methodological approach to studying movement behaviour. A major issue concerns the perceived artificiality of many laboratory-bound cognitive research paradigms. In reaction to this there has been an increased emphasis on sport-related research on perception-action coupling within more ecologically valid settings. This paper provides a critical review of existing work on perception and action in sport-related tasks. It is argued that, since sport movements represent a potentially fruitful body of actions with which to meaningfully examine this relationship, sport science can make a fundamental contribution to this ongoing debate.
635	ecological	2007	Hodges, BH	Good prospects: ecological and social perspectives on conforming, creating, and caring in conversation	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Ecological approaches (e.g. [Gibson, J.J., 1979. The Ecological Approach to Visual Perception. Houghton-Mifflin, Boston]) to psychology and language are selectively reviewed, focusing on social learning. Is social learning (e.g., acquiring language) a matter of conformity [Tomasello, M., 2006. Acquiring linguistic constructions. In: D. Kuhn, R.S. Siegler, W. Damon, R.M. Lerner (Eds.), Handbook of Child Psychology, Cognition, Perception, and Language, sixth ed., vol. 2., Wiley, Hoboken, NJ, pp. 255-298], creativity [Chomsky, N. 1965. Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA], or something else? Ecological approaches [Reed, E.S., 1996. Encountering the World: Toward an Ecological Psychology. Oxford University Press, Oxford; Hodges, B.H., Baron, R.M. 1992. Values as constraints on affordances: perceiving and acting properly. Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour 22, 263-294] put the focus on values. Reed's account highlights the collective appropriation of affordances, the precocious perception and enactment of "unfilled meanings," and children's becoming persons through the active structuring of their environment (e.g., gestural games, story-telling). Hodges and Baron's account of values as multiple, heterarchical, dynamical, and legitimating constraints on actions is applied to cases of pragmatic rule violations, particularly Hodges and Geyer's [Hodges, B.H., Geyer, A.L., 2006. A nonconformist account of the Asch experiments: Values, pragmatics, and moral dilemmas. Personality and Social Psychology Review 10, 2-19] reinterpretation of Asch's [Asch, S.E., 1956. Studies of independence and conformity: I. A minority of one against a unanimous majority. Psychological Monographs 70, (9) (Whole No. 416)] influential experiments on social influence and perception. These ecological, social, and values-realizing accounts suggest that conversations are about seeking good prospects, caring for others and self, and inviting responsible action. The possibility of language as a perceptual system [Gibson, J.J., 1966. The Senses Considered as Perceptual Systems. Houghton-Mifflin, Boston] for exploring dialogical arrays, and an action system [Reed, E.S., 1982. An outline of a theory of action systems. Journal of Motor Behavior 14, 97-134] for coordinating diverse space-time scales is considered. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
636	ecological	2002	Chawla, L; Heft, H	Children's competence and the ecology of communities: A functional approach to the evaluation of participation	JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Initiatives to involve children and adolescents in assessing, planning and managing their local environments are increasing around the world. How these initiatives are to be evaluated, however, has only begun to be discussed. A particular theoretical challenge to be faced is formulating an approach that has broad cross-cultural applicability while also remaining sensitive to the considerable sociocultural differences that exist. The development of competence, that is, the capacity to exercise control over valued spheres of life, is identified as a quality that characterizes psychological well-being universally, even as its specific expression is formed variously in different contexts. Drawing on concepts from ecological psychology, we consider qualities of environments that, are likely to support the development of competence and discuss how these concepts can inform efforts to evaluate children's participation in communities. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd.
637	ecological	2000	Stretch, RA; Bartlett, R; Davids, K	A review of batting in men's cricket	JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCES	In this review, we critically evaluate the scientific research into the morphology and physiology of cricket batsmen. We consider all aspects of the motor control of this skill, in the context of research into dynamic interceptive actions, the biomechanics (kinematics and kinetics) of the various phases of batting strokes and injuries to batsmen. Some attention is also devoted to batting equipment and to psychological factors in batting. Because of the lack of published scientific research into women's cricket, this review focuses on the men's game and covers research on batsmen of various playing standards. For the future, we see as a high priority research into injury mechanisms, rather than simple injury statistics, and the role of cricket equipment design in injury prevention. A second priority is for multi- or inter-disciplinary research, linking the biomechanics of batting to the underlying motor control of the movements and the effect of environmental information. Biomechanical studies of the variability of the batsman's movements are needed, and these should be related to the compensatory variability proposal of ecological psychology. Clearly, there is also a need for scientific research into batting in women's cricket, which has been inadequately researched to date.
638	ecological	2008	Michaels, CF; Arzamarski, R; Isenhower, RW; Jacobs, DM	Direct learning in dynamic touch	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	A dynamic touch paradigm in which participants judged the lengths of rods and pipes was used to test the D. M. Jacobs and C. F. Michaels (2007) theory of perceptual learning. The theory portrays perception as the exploitation of a locus on an information manifold and learning as continuous movement across that manifold to a new locus, as guided by information available in feedback. The information manifold was defined as a 1-dimensional space of inertial variables. To encourage maximal learning, a 2-step procedure was used in each of 2 experiments. Each step comprised a pretest to identify the starting locus on the information manifold, a practice phase in which feedback specifying the optimal locus was given, and a posttest in which the ending locus on the manifold was identified. In the 2nd step, a different feedback variable specified a different optimum. In both experiments, participants, who sometimes began at different loci, showed the predicted movement toward the optimum in each phase. Whereas previous applications of the theory posit the existence of information-for-learning without identifying a candidate variable, such a candidate is identified.
639	ecological	2004	Djajadiningrat, T; Wensveen, S; Frens, J; Overbeeke, K	Tangible products: redressing the balance between appearance and action	PERSONAL AND UBIQUITOUS COMPUTING	Over the past decade, our group has approached interaction design from an industrial design point of view. In doing so, we focus on a branch of design called "formgiving''(1). Traditionally, formgiving has been concerned with such aspects of objects as form, colour, texture and material. In the context of interaction design, we have come to see formgiving as the way in which objects appeal to our senses and motor skills. In this paper, we first describe our approach to interaction design of electronic products. We start with how we have been first inspired and then disappointed by the Gibsonian perception movement [1], how we have come to see both appearance and actions as carriers of meaning, and how we see usability and aesthetics as inextricably linked. We then show a number of interaction concepts for consumer electronics with both our initial thinking and what we learnt from them. Finally, we discuss the relevance of all this for tangible interaction. We argue that, in addition to a data-centred view, it is also possible to take a perceptual-motor-centred view on tangible interaction. In this view, it is the rich opportunities for differentiation in appearance and action possibilities that make physical objects open up new avenues to meaning and aesthetics in interaction design.
640	ecological	2011	Chow, JY; Davids, K; Hristovski, R; Araujo, D; Passos, P	Nonlinear pedagogy: Learning design for self-organizing neurobiological systems	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In this paper, key concepts in ecological psychology and nonlinear dynamics exemplify how learning design can be shaped by ideas of self-organization, meta-stability and self-organized criticality in complex neurobiological systems. Through interactions with specific ecological constraints in learning environments, cognition, decision making and action emerge. An important design strategy is the use of different types of noise to channel the learning process into meta-stable regions of the "learner-learning environment" system to encourage adaptive behaviors. Here learners can be exposed to many functional and creative performance solutions during training. Data from studies in the performance context of sports are used to illustrate how these theoretical ideas can underpin learning design. Based on these insights a nonlinear pedagogy is proposed in which the role of coaches or trainers alters from a more traditional, prescriptive stance to the mode of manipulating key interacting task constraints including information, space and equipment to facilitate learning. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
641	ecological	2012	Barrett, L; Henzi, SP; Lusseau, D	Taking sociality seriously: the structure of multi-dimensional social networks as a source of information for individuals	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Understanding human cognitive evolution, and that of the other primates, means taking sociality very seriously. For humans, this requires the recognition of the sociocultural and historical means by which human minds and selves are constructed, and how this gives rise to the reflexivity and ability to respond to novelty that characterize our species. For other, non-linguistic, primates we can answer some interesting questions by viewing social life as a feedback process, drawing on cybernetics and systems approaches and using social network neo-theory to test these ideas. Specifically, we show how social networks can be formalized as multi-dimensional objects, and use entropy measures to assess how networks respond to perturbation. We use simulations and natural 'knock-outs' in a free-ranging baboon troop to demonstrate that changes in interactions after social perturbations lead to a more certain social network, in which the outcomes of interactions are easier for members to predict. This new formalization of social networks provides a framework within which to predict network dynamics and evolution, helps us highlight how human and non-human social networks differ and has implications for theories of cognitive evolution.
642	ecological	2007	Good, JMM	The affordances for social psychology of the ecological approach to social knowing	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	This paper examines the engagement of theory with mainstream social psychology in terms of developments in social cognition and perception. The particular focus is the development and reception of the 'ecological' or 'mutualist' approach to social perception and cognition. The introduction of some terms of central concern is followed by a brief review of some of the ontological and epistemological issues that have perplexed empirical studies of social knowing. This is followed by documentation and appraisal of attempts over the past twenty-five years to 'socialize' ecological psychology and to address the role of language and culture in social knowing. The final section considers some of the conceptual and methodological constraints that have impeded the promulgation of an ecological perspective. Although ecological notions have failed to make much impact on the mainstream, it is concluded that the growing interest in embedded and embodied cognition suggests the continuing relevance of the ecological approach with its relational ontology and emphasis on the reciprocity of perception and action.
643	ecological	2007	Heft, H	The social constitution of perceiver-environment reciprocity	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Although animal-environment reciprocity is central to ecological psychology, one facet of this viewpoint remains underappreciated: organisms alter environments so as to better function in them. In many species this activity of "niche construction" includes coordinated actions by individuals jointly working toward common ends. Mounting paleontological and archeological evidence indicates that human evolution should be viewed in the light of such social considerations. The environment of our immediate human ancestors was marked by, among other things, group settlements, manufactured stone tools, and extensive migration. An emerging species such as ours, whose distinctive psychological qualities offered a selective advantage relative to these conditions, would flourish particularly if it could preserve the gains of prior generations even as its members continued to transform econiche features in functionally significant ways. This evolutionary perspective, with its due recognition of sociocultural processes, highlights 3 factors of importance for ecological psychology: (1) the history of person-environment reciprocity results in human environments whose natural and sociocultural factors are inextricably intertwined. (2) developing individuals enter human environments not as solitary explorers but through the guidance of more experienced persons with the result that much development takes shape through social mediation; and (3) a distinguishing and ubiquitous feature of human environments that is a product of collective human actions is places. Nearly all human activity, including most psychological research, occurs in places, and owing to their psychological significance, it would seem impossible to disentangle psychological and social processes. These 3 factors illuminate that a fully-realized ecological psychology will be one that includes recognition of the constitutive role played by social processes.
644	ecological	2003	Vicente, KJ	Beyond the lens model and direct perception: Toward a broader ecological psychology	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Despite sharing the label ecological psychology, Brunswikian and Gibsonian research programs are virtually independent scientific activities conducted by a virtually independent pair of scientific communities. The purpose of this article is to provide a theoretical integration of these 2 lines of work. The tens model and the theory of direct perception can each be viewed as specific versions of a more general research program that distinguishes between distal structure (i.e., "thing") and proximal structure (i.e., "medium") and that is based on the metatheoretical commitment to understanding human behavior by focusing on adaptation to functionally significant environmental regularities. The lens model deals with probabilistic relations between proximal and distal that require judgment and decision making, whereas direct perception deals with direct specification between proximal and distal that permits an intimate coupling with the environment. By showing how these 2 lines of work can be integrated theoretically, a number of important benefits can be obtained, including the furthering of the primary aim of science: the development of more unified and cumulative knowledge.
645	ecological	2011	Durning, S; Artino, AR; Pangaro, L; van der Vleuten, CPM; Schuwirth, L	Context and clinical reasoning: understanding the perspective of the expert's voice	MEDICAL EDUCATION	OBJECTIVES Prior work has found that a doctor's clinical reasoning performance varies on a case-by-case (situation) basis; this is often referred to as 'context specificity'. To explore the influence of context on diagnostic and therapeutic clinical reasoning, we constructed a series of videotapes to which doctors were asked to respond, modifying different contextual factors (patient, doctor, setting). We explored how these contextual factors, as displayed by videotape encounters, may have influenced the clinical reasoning of board-certified internists (experts). Our purpose was to clarify the influence of context on reasoning, to build upon education theory and to generate implications for education practice. METHODS Qualitative data about experts were gathered from two sources: think-aloud protocols reflecting concurrent thought processes that occurred while board-certified internists viewed videotape encounters, and free-text responses to queries that explicitly asked these experts to comment on the influence of selected contextual factors on their clinical reasoning processes. These data sources provided both actual performance data (think-aloud responses) and opinions on reflection (free-text answers) regarding the influence of context on reasoning. Results for each data source were analysed for emergent themes and then combined into a unified theoretical model. RESULTS Several themes emerged from our data and were broadly classified as components influencing the impact of contextual factors, mechanisms for addressing contextual factors, and consequences of contextual factors for patient care. Themes from both data sources had good overlap, indicating that experts are somewhat cognisant of the potential influences of context on their reasoning processes; notable exceptions concerned the themes of missed key findings, balancing of goals and the influence of encounter setting, which emerged in the think-aloud but not the free-text analysis. CONCLUSIONS Our unified model is consistent with the tenets of cognitive load, situated cognition and ecological psychology theories. A number of potentially modifiable influences on clinical reasoning were identified. Implications for doctor training and practice are discussed.
646	ecological	2009	Zheng, DP; Young, MF; Wagner, MM; Brewer, RA	Negotiation for Action: English Language Learning in Game-Based Virtual Worlds	MODERN LANGUAGE JOURNAL	This study analyzes the user chat logs and other artifacts of a virtual world, Quest Atlantis (QA), and proposes the concept of Negotiation for Action (NfA) to explain how interaction, specifically, avatar-embodied collaboration between native English speakers and nonnative English speakers, provided resources for English language acquisition. Iterative multilayered analyses revealed several affordances of QA for language acquisition at both utterance and discourse levels. Through intercultural collaboration on solving content-based problems, participants successfully reached quest goals during which emergent identity formation and meaning making take place. The study also demonstrates that it is in this intercultural interaction that pragmatics, syntax, semantics, and discourse practices arose and were enacted. The findings are consistent with our ecological psychology framework, in that meaning emerges when language is used to coordinate in-the-moment actions.
647	ecological	2009	Hodges, B	Ecological pragmatics Values, dialogical arrays, complexity, and caring	PRAGMATICS & COGNITION	This paper explores the hypothesis that first-order linguistic activities are better understood in terms of ecological, values-realizing dynamics rather than in terms of rule-governed processes. Conversing, like other perception-action skills (e.g., driving) is constrained by multiple values, heterarchically organized. This hypothesis is explored in terms of three broad approaches that contrast with models of language which view it as a cognitive system: (1) conversing as a perceptual system for exploring dialogical arrays (Hodges 2007a); (2) conversing as an action system for integrating diverse space-time scales (Van Orden 2007); and (3) conversing as a caring system for embodying the context-sensitivity and interdependency necessary to realize values (Hodges 2007b). Approaching language as a caring action-perception system leads to a reconsideration of cognitive dimensions of linguistic activities, including consciousness, pragmatics, suffering, and hope.
648	ecological	2008	Passos, P; Araujo, D; Davids, K; Shuttleworth, R	Manipulating Constraints to Train Decision Making in Rugby Union	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING	This paper focuses on the paradoxical relationship between game unpredictability and the certainty of players' actions in team ball sports. Our research on this relationship leads us to suggest a method for training decision making, which we exemplify in the team sport of Rugby Union. The training methodology is based on application of theoretical insights from Ecological Psychology, Complex Dynamical Systems and the Constraints-Led Approach. The paper starts with a critical overview of traditional approaches to studying decision making in sport. Next we describe the sport of Rugby Union to exemplify a complex dynamical system, and explain how that conceptualisation captures the interactions of players within that performance context. We conclude our analysis by describing how to manipulate task constraints to improve decision-making performance, as players search for an appropriate blend of stability and variability in their actions. In the final part of the paper, we suggest some methods to train decision making based on four stages: i) identifying the problem; ii) setting out a strategy to solve it; iii) creating an action model; and iv) building a decision-making exercise. The main conclusion from our work for coaches and sports scientists is that decision making should be improved through training methods that provide an accurate balance between stability of actions, which gives structure to the players' performance, and variability, which allows them to cope with the uncertainty of situational constraints, such as the behaviour of specific opponents.
649	ecological	2012	Heyser, CJ; Chemero, A	Novel object exploration in mice: Not all objects are created equal	BEHAVIOURAL PROCESSES	Object exploration is an increasingly popular experimental paradigm in behavioral sciences. We have begun a series of studies with mice specifically looking at the parameters that influence behaviors in this test. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of object type on performance in the object exploration test. More specifically, adult male C57BL/6J mice were trained and tested using objects that could be climbed (CLIMB) or with those that could only be touched (TOUCH). The results show that activity is affected by the presentation of objects, with object type interacting with some of these changes. C57 mice explored objects that can be climbed over significantly longer than objects that can only be touched and a more rapid habituation was observed using objects that could only be touched. Robust recognition memory was observed in both groups of mice, however mice in the CLIMB group exhibited a significantly greater discrimination index compared to mice in the TOUCH group. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that the selection of objects is of critical importance and it is recommended that special attention be given to the functional (affordant) properties of the objects to-be-used in future studies. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
650	ecological	2006	Bonnet, CT; Faugloire, E; Riley, MA; Bardy, BG; Stoffregen, TA	Motion sickness preceded by unstable displacements of the center of pressure	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	We exposed standing participants to optic flow in a moving room. Motion sickness was induced by motion that simulated the amplitude and frequency of standing sway. We identified instabilities in displacements of the center of pressure among participants who became sick; these instabilities occurred before the onset of subjective motion sickness symptoms. Postural differences between Sick and Well participants were observed before exposure to the nauseogenic stimulus. During exposure to the nauseogenic stimulus, sway increased for participants who became sick but also for those who did not. However, at every point during exposure sway was greater for participants who became motion sick. The results reveal that motion sickness is preceded by instabilities in displacements of the center of pressure. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
651	ecological	2003	Wagman, JB; Miller, DB	Nested reciprocities: The organism-environment system in perception-action and development	DEVELOPMENTAL PSYCHOBIOLOGY	The ecological approach to studying perception and action is one in which researchers view the structure in ambient energy arrays surrounding a given organism as being sufficient to specify meaningful environmental properties to that organism. Thus, from this perspective, perception is viewed not as a cognitive achievement but as a lawful state of affairs that exists in an organism-environment system. The approach to studying development known as transactionalism is one in which researchers view the developmental process as the expression of a complex web of endogenous and exogenous factors. Thus, from this perspective, development is not an unfolding of a genetic program, but rather an ongoing exchange among levels of the organism-environment system that continues throughout the life span of the organism. Despite their independent development, these two meta-theoretical approaches have much in common. In each approach, the organism-environment system is the fundamental unit of analysis, and the development of perception and behavior is spread across the multiple levels of this system. (C) 2003 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
652	ecological	1996	Yardley, L	Reconciling discursive and materialist perspectives on health and illness - A reconstruction of the biopsychosocial approach	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	This paper examines the feasibility of developing 'material-discursive' approaches suitable for studying the reciprocal interactions between the sociolinguistic and physical aspects of health and illness. The term 'discursive' is used in the broadest possible sense, to refer to a mode of description characterized by awareness of the socially constructed and linguistically mediated nature of human experience. Similarly, the term 'material' is extended to embrace any non-reductionist account of physical being which appears compatible with a discursive outlook. The obstacles to a material-discursive approach are discussed, with particular reference to the debate between researchers who conduct traditional quantitative and experimental research within the 'biopsychosocial' framework and those who advocate a radical anti-realist position and qualitative research. A variety of material-discursive perspectives are explored, ranging from consideration of the physical origins and manifestations of linguistic meaning and socio-cultural processes, to analysis of the consonance between social constructionism, phenomenology and James Gibson's ecological psychology.
653	ecological	1979	WICKER, AW	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY - SOME RECENT AND PROSPECTIVE DEVELOPMENTS	AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST	0
654	ecological	2013	Volkoff, O; Strong, DM	CRITICAL REALISM AND AFFORDANCES: THEORIZING IT-ASSOCIATED ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGE PROCESSES	MIS QUARTERLY	Convincing arguments for using critical realism as an underpinning for theories of IT-associated organizational change have appeared in the Information Systems literature. A central task in developing such theories is to uncover the generative mechanisms by which IT is implicated in organizational change processes, but to do so, we must explain how critical realism's concept of generative mechanisms applies in an IS context. Similarly, convincing arguments have been made for using Gibson's (1986) affordance theory from ecological psychology for developing theories of IT-associated organizational change, but this effort has been hampered due to insufficient attention to the ontological status of affordances. In this paper, we argue that affordances are the generative mechanisms we need to specify and explain how affordances are a specific type of generative mechanism. We use the core principles of critical realism to argue how affordances arise in the real domain from the relation between the complex assemblages of organizations and of IT artifacts, how affordances are actualized over time by organizational actors, and how these actualizations lead to the various effects we observe in the empirical domain. After presenting these arguments, we reanalyze two published cases in the literature, those of ACRO and Autoworks, to illustrate how affordance-based theories informed by critical realism enhance our ability to explain IT-associated organizational change. These examples show how researchers using this approach should proceed, and how managers can use these ideas to diagnose and address IT implementation problems.
655	ecological	2009	Dicks, M; Davids, K; Button, C	Representative task designs for the study of perception and action in sport	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	Empirical evidence indicates that. an underlying antecedent of sports expertise is the ability of skilled athletes to successfully use predictive information to guide Their anticipatory responses. This article discusses the nature of The relationship between expertise, perception and action. using ideas from ecological psychology (Gibson, 1979) and representative task design (Brunswik, 7956). This conceptual framework suggests that a shortcoming of many research studies is a failure to accurately sample the performance environments of which skilled athletes have experience. It is proposed that the task constraints used to study perception and action should closely represent the specific performance contexts towards which investigators are attempting to generalise. Comparison of the research literature using in situ and video simulation experimental paradigms suggests that athletes' performance may vary tinder different task constraints. These empirical findings need to be considered in future research on the study and training of perceptual skill.
656	ecological	2009	Withagen, R; Chemero, A	Naturalizing Perception Developing the Gibsonian Approach to Perception along Evolutionary Lines	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	We believe that one of the most important aspects of Gibson's ecological psychology is his attempted naturalization of perception, that is, his attempt to place perception in the context of evolutionary theory. However, the dominant neo-Gibsonian approach to perception has been criticized for being inconsistent with evolutionary theory. We argue that a central tenet of this approach indeed runs counter to evolutionary considerations. Based on an evolutionary analysis of the use of information, we sketch an alternative development of Gibson's pioneering ideas. A truly naturalistic theory of perception, we argue, should recognize both suboptimalities in perception and variation among the members of a population in what informational variables are used. Like other variable organismal features, the use of information is a function of multiple factors. We will compare this naturalistic ecological approach with both Gibson's own perspective and more recent frameworks.
657	ecological	2001	Effken, JA	Informational basis for expert intuition	JOURNAL OF ADVANCED NURSING	Aim. Intuition has been cited as an integral part of nursing clinical expertise. Responding to the recent scholarly debate over the status of expert nursing intuition as part of the art or science of nursing, this article proposes an alternative view that may provide tin informational basis for what has been described phenomenologically as intuition. Rationale. Two reasons for the dispute over the status of nursing intuition as 'art' or 'science' are proposed: The first is methodological. The second relates to intuition's close link with perception and underlying assumptions about perception. By examining intuition through an ecological psychology framework, the problem takes on a different character, one that is no longer focused solely on the expert's cognitive (or perceptual) processes, but also on the information provided by the patient and the context of care. Conclusions. This perspective has several implications for nursing. By investigating information sources (i.e. higher order variables or constraints) in the nurse-patient encounter, the problem of intuition may be clarified, and perhaps simplified. We may iind that what nurse researchers have called 'intuition' is what Gibson (1966, 1986) termed 'direct perception.' Intuition as direct perception is information-based and lawful. Finally, although some aspects of intuition may be hard-wired through evolution, intuition as direct perception can be developed through education and extensive, deliberate practice with appropriate exemplars. Characterized as direct perception, intuition is an observable, lawful phenomenon that is measurable, potentially teachable, and appropriately part of nursing science.
658	ecological	2000	Kadar, EE; Shaw, RE	Toward an ecological field theory of perceptual control of locomotion	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	The field concept was introduced into physics in the 19th century. Soon afterward, some Gestaltists tried to use this approach to characterize the internal global brain process. Conversely, another Gestaltist, Lewin (1938), tried to develop a field description of the physical and social environment in which the brain field was immersed. Later, J. J. Gibson (Gibson & Crooks, 1938/1982) attempted to conceptualize the environment-organism interaction in field theoretic terms. First, he suggested that a dynamical field of safe travel may be used by drivers to control their automobiles in traffic while avoiding collisions. Later, Gibson and his colleagues (Gibson, 1950; Gibson, Olum, & Rosenblatt, 1955) showed, mathematically, how an optic flow field chat actors may use in selecting approach paths for landing aircraft safely is available. Over the ensuing decades, the optic flow field description has provided a powerful and popular tool for addressing a number of diverse problems in visual perception as it pertains to the control of action. Although in a seminal article, Gibson (1958) outlined a general theory of visually controlled locomotion a recently published special issue on this topic tin Ecological Psychology; W. H. Warren, 1998) revealed that in even simple tasks (e.g., steering), intentional and informational constraints are still not yet understood. This article critically reviews the history of field theoretical approaches to the problem of perceptual control of goal-directed behavior. In particular, our overview focuses on the historical sources and development of Gibson's field theoretic attempts to ad dress the visual control of locomotion. Our overview also provides an evaluation of recent field theoretical efforts to describe animal-environment interactions. We conclude that the use of interaction fields seems to be the most promising current approach. Because these fields incorporate both perceptual and action variables, they provide a natural way to formulate the perceiving-acting cycle as the reciprocal interplay of information and control along a goal-directed path. Finally, field theory, we suggest, provides an important tool because its power can be readily extended to include other useful techniques as well (e.g., quantum mechanical path space formalisms).
659	ecological	2010	Van Orden, GC; Kello, CT; Holden, JG	Situated Behavior and the Place of Measurement in Psychological Theory	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Measured values of human behavior may entail contradictory attributes of wave and particle by analogy with the wave/particle attributes of the electron. 1/f scaling is the wave attribute in this analogy and punctate data points are the particle attribute. One consequence of the wave/particle duality in physics was to elevate measurement to a primary place in physical theory, and one purpose of the present analogy is to likewise elevate measurement to a primary place in psychological theory. Another purpose is to emulate Robert Shaw's creative use of analogies, consistent with the brief quotation that begins this article. Anytime you take a measurement you establish a dynamic linkage between two systems. (Robert Shaw, personal communication, March 10, 1998)
660	ecological	2005	Montagne, G	Prospective control in sport	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	It is generally assumed that the ability to interact successfully with both stationary and moving bodies or surfaces of the environment in sports, for example, relies on predictive control mechanisms. Knowing in advance when and where a forthcoming event (e.g., ball interception) will take place is thought to be a necessary condition for planning the appropriate action and adapting one's movements. Conversely prospective control mechanisms allow actors to produce on-line regulations based on the Perception of their current relationship to the environment. This review is designed to provide evidence obtained from various sports in support of the use of prospective control mechanisms. These mechanisms are functional, in the sense that they allow the actor to adapt to unexpected changes.. They are also parsimonious, in that they enable the actor to accommodate future events without having to make calculations or inferences. The influence of learning on the implementation and attunement of these mechanisms is discussed, and some concluding remarks for sport psychologists are made.
661	ecological	2002	Renaud, P; Bouchard, S; Proulx, R	Behavioral avoidance dynamics in the presence of a virtual spider	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY IN BIOMEDICINE	Tracking behavior with a virtual spider and a neutral target is compared in fearful and nonfearful subjects. Head-tracking in virtual environments appears to be a scale-free behavior with long-range fractal-like patterns. Moreover, these fractal patterns change according to what the target affords the tracker and the level of behavioral avoidance manifested by the subjects. Results are interpreted in terms of ecological psychology and nonlinear dynamics, and implications for virtual reality (VR) psychology are outlined.
662	ecological	2013	Kelty-Stephen, DG; Palatinus, K; Saltzman, E; Dixon, JA	A Tutorial on Multifractality, Cascades, and Interactivity for Empirical Time Series in Ecological Science	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Interactivity is a central theme of ecological psychology. According to Gibsonian views, behavior is the emergent property of interactions between organism and environment. Hence, an important challenge for ecological psychology has been to identify physical principles that provide an empirical window into interactivity. We suspect that multifractality, a concept from statistical physics, may be helpful in this regard, and we offer this article as a tutorial on multifractality with 2 main goals. First, we aim to describe multifractality with a series of simple, concrete, but progressively more elaborate examples that will incrementally elucidate the relationship between multifractality and interactivity. Second, we aim to describe a direct estimation method for computing the multifractal spectrum (e.g., Chhabra & Jensen, 1989), presenting it as an alternative that avoids the pitfalls of more popular methods and that may address more appropriately the measurements traditionally taken by ecological psychologists. In sum, this tutorial aims to unpack the theoretical background for an analytical method allowing rigorous test of interactivity in a variety of empirical settings.
663	ecological	2007	Carr, EG	The expanding vision of positive behavior support: Research perspectives on happiness, helpfulness, hopefulness	JOURNAL OF POSITIVE BEHAVIOR INTERVENTIONS	Positive behavior support (PBS) represents an empirically driven concern with quality of life (QOL), support through systems change, and linkage to multiple behavioral, social, and biomedical sciences. The major impediments to QOL are problem behavior, skill deficits, and dysfunctional systems. A model for addressing dysfunctional systems is presented, and its relationship to issues of behavior maintenance and sustainability of intervention efforts is described. The expansion of PBS to new populations and venues will likely be facilitated by linking this field to other disciplines, including organizational management, community/ecological psychology, cultural psychology, biomedical science, and positive psychology. Such linkage will enhance the development of PBS conceptually, methodologically, and empirically, culminating in a more effective and unique applied science.
664	ecological	2005	Davids, K; Renshaw, I; Glazier, P	Movement models from sports reveal fundamental insights into coordination processes	EXERCISE AND SPORT SCIENCES REVIEWS	Trends for studying coordination and control have shifted from simple movement models toward complex, multijoint actions in sports such as cricket. Use of such movement models exemplifies the nature of interacting constraints that shape emergence of coordination and control processes as proposed by dynamical systems theory and ecological psychology.
665	ecological	2001	Davids, K; Kingsbury, D; Bennett, S; Handford, C	Information-movement coupling: Implications for the organization of research and practice during acquisition of self-paced extrinsic timing skills	JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCES	Information-movement coupling is a fundamental concept, integral to theorizing on the coordination of goal-directed activity in ecological psychology. In this paper, we examine the implications of this concept for the design of experimental research and the organization of practice during the acquisition of movement coordination in sport tasks. The task vehicle for our analysis is interceptive actions, in particular self-paced extrinsic timing tasks exemplified by serving in sports such as volleyball. Recent research highlighting the relevance of information-movement coupling for the process of practice in sport is discussed. We conclude that information-movement coupling represents an important principle for the structural organization of research and practice in self-paced extrinsic timing tasks and that further work is required to verify its significance across a range of sport movements.
666	ecological	2010	Bloomfield, BP; Latham, Y; Vurdubakis, T	Bodies, Technologies and Action Possibilities When is an Affordance?	SOCIOLOGY-THE JOURNAL OF THE BRITISH SOCIOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION	Borrowed from ecological psychology, the concept of affordances is often said to offer the social study of technology a means of re-framing the question of what is, and what is not, 'social' about technological artefacts. The concept, many argue, enables us to chart a safe course between the perils of technological determinism and social constructivism. This article questions the sociological adequacy of the concept as conventionally deployed. Drawing on ethnographic work on the ways technological artefacts engage, and are engaged by, disabled bodies, we propose that the 'affordances' of technological objects are not reducible to their material constitution but are inextricably bound up with specific, historically situated modes of engagement and ways of life.
667	ecological	2007	Hodges, BH	Values define fields: The intentional dynamics of driving, carrying, leading, negotiating, and conversing	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	What is the relation between ecological, social, and cognitive psychology? The thesis described and illustrated in this article is that a psychology of values (e.g., Hodges & Baron, 1992) provides the basis for prospecting an ecological psychology that is more sensitive to the social and moral dimensions of action, and for developing a social psychology that is more ecological and embodied. This social-ecological, values -realizing psychology may provide new insights into issues that are viewed as cognitive (e.g., language) as well. First, ecological studies of driving (e.g., Gibson & Crooks, 1938) and carrying (Hodges & Lindhiem, 2006) are reviewed to illustrate a values -realizing approach to psychology and to evaluate whether social and moral constraints are intrusions or intrinsic constraints. Second, in the social domain Asch's (1956) studies of social influence and perception are reframed in terms of leading and following, requiring the coordination of multiple values and multiple relationships. Third, more ecological and social approaches to language studies are considered, with a focus on embodied activity and the inadequacy of rule-based accounts. It is proposed that central functions of language are seeking good prospects, caring, and wayfinding. More generally, caring emerges as a central theme and a crucial context for activities as diverse as driving, carrying, conversing, and negotiating disagreements.
668	ecological	2010	Ugur, E; Sahin, E	Traversability: A Case Study for Learning and Perceiving Affordances in Robots	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	The concept of affordances, introduced in psychology by J. J. Gibson, has recently attracted interest in the development of cognitive systems in autonomous robotics. In earlier work (Sahin, Cakmak, Dogar, Ugur, & Ucoluk), we reviewed the uses of this concept in different fields and proposed a formalism to use affordances at different levels of robot control. In this article, we first review studies in ecological psychology on the learning and perception of traversability in organisms and describe how the existence of traversability was judged to exist. We then describe the implementation of one part of the affordance formalism for the learning and perception of traversability affordances on a mobile robot equipped with range sensing ability. Through experiments inspired by ecological psychology, we show that the robot, by interacting with its environment, can learn to perceive the traversability affordances. Moreover, we claim that three of the main attributes that are commonly associated with affordances, that is, affordances being relative to the environment, providing perceptual economy, and providing general information, are simply consequences of learning from the interactions of the robot with the environment.
669	ecological	2009	Cordovil, R; Araujo, D; Davids, K; Gouveia, L; Barreiros, J; Fernandes, O; Serpa, S	The influence of instructions and body-scaling as constraints on decision-making processes in team sports	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SPORT SCIENCE	Team games conceptualized as dynamical systems engender a view of emergent decision-making behaviour under constraints, although specific effects of instructional and body-scaling constraints have yet to be verified empirically. For this purpose, we studied the effects of task and individual constraints on decision-making processes in basketball. Eleven experienced female players performed 350 trials in 1 vs. 1 sub-phases of basketball in which an attacker tried to perturb the stable state of a dyad formed with a defender (i.e. break the symmetry). In Experiment 1, specific instructions (neutral, risk taking or conservative) were manipulated to observe effects on emergent behaviour of the dyadic system. When attacking players were given conservative instructions, time to cross court mid-line and variability of the attacker's trajectory were significantly greater. In Experiment 2, body-scaling of participants was manipulated by creating dyads with different height relations. When attackers were considerably taller than defenders, there were fewer occurrences of symmetry-breaking. When attackers were considerably shorter than defenders, time to cross court mid-line was significantly shorter than when dyads were composed of athletes of similar height or when attackers were considerably taller than defenders. The data exemplify how interacting task and individual constraints can influence emergent decision-making processes in team ball games.
670	ecological	2005	Cummins-Sebree, SE; Fragaszy, DM	Choosing and using tools: Capuchins (Cebus apella) use a different metric than tamarins (Saguinus oedipus)	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) selected canes positioned so that a straight inward pull brought food within reach (M. D. Hauser, 1997). Tamarins failed to retrieve food with canes in other positions, and they did not reposition these canes. In this study, tufted capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella) preferred canes they could pull straight in when these were present, but they also repositioned canes in individually variable ways, and their success at obtaining food with repositioned canes improved with practice. In accord with predictions drawn from ecological psychology, capuchins discovered affordances of canes through exploratory actions with these objects, whereas tamarins did not. Ecological theory predicts these differences on the basis of species-typical manipulative activity, and it provides a useful approach for the study of species differences in tool-using behavior.
671	ecological	1999	Buekers, M; Montagne, G; de Rugy, A; Laurent, M	The regulation of externally paced human locomotion in virtual reality	NEUROSCIENCE LETTERS	The goal of the present experiment was to study regulation of human locomotion under externally paced temporal constraints. On a screen placed in front of a treadmill a virtual hallway was projected (Silicon Graphics systems) in which a pair of doors were presented that continuously opened and closed at a rate of 1 Hz. Subjects were attached to a locometer and instructed to regulate walking pace such that the doors were passed correctly. Performance outcome, movement kinematics (stride duration, stride length and synchronization of stride and door cycles) and flow patterns (change in visual angle of door aperture) were used to examine the data. The analysis of the synchronization patterns indicates that stride cycles were not linked to the period of door oscillation. Moreover, results for stride duration reveal that subjects walked at their preferred speed up to the final phase of the approach. This observation is supported by the inspection of the flow patterns, revealing a final increase in variability as a result of regulation. In sum, regulation of locomotion under externally paced temporal constraints seems to generate a specific functional behavior. It appears that regulations are postponed until the final stage of the approach during which adaptations are made according to the requirements of the current situation. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
672	ecological	1998	Kuo, FY	Managerial intuition and the development of executive support systems	DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEMS	Managerial intuition is a well-recognized cognitive ability but still poorly understood for the purpose of developing effective Executive Support Systems (ESS). This paper reviews research on cognition involved in intuition. The review shows that, in everyday decision making, executives are not passive choice makers but are active sensemakers who rely on perception, action, and imaginistic reasoning to arrive at solutions to problems. The combination of these cognitive resources appears to be seamless. Furthermore, the knowledge needed for problem solving is distributed between the manager's mind and the surrounding world. As a result, managers' intuition can be effective in handling dynamic, ill-structured problem situations. To develop an ESS that fits this perception-action ecology of the manager's life in a hectic world, we must go beyond the emphasis of the tasks' functionalities. The author proposes an ecological model of managerial intuition and recommends methodologies that focus the analysis on the interplay between the manager and their environment. He also suggests guidelines to improve the ESS development such that the powerful intuition of managers and the analytic capability of the computer may be combined. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
673	ecological	1992	WATTS, RJ	ELEMENTS OF A PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN-DIVERSITY	JOURNAL OF COMMUNITY PSYCHOLOGY	Despite new movements in psychology that are supportive of human diversity, there is no general framework for relating significant social-psychological markers like gender, race, age, sexual orientation, and other aspects of human diversity to theory, research, and action in community psychology. This article reviews four perspectives that can contribute to a general psychology of human diversity: the population-specific psychologies (e.g., Asian-American psychology, the psychology of women, African-American psychology), sociopolitical perspectives (emphasizing historical, economic, and systems analysis and the dynamics of oppression), cross-cultural psychology (emphasizing culture, and inter- as well as intragroup methods), and ecological psychology (emphasizing the dynamics of specific settings and the people in them). Using tenets of social constructionist philosophy and an emphasis on social equity and cultural relativism to create a value stance, the relevant concepts from each perspective are discussed. The implications of this emerging diversity-conscious worldview for research, action, and theory in community psychology are also considered.
674	ecological	2011	Mon-Williams, M; Bingham, GP	Discovering affordances that determine the spatial structure of reach-to-grasp movements	EXPERIMENTAL BRAIN RESEARCH	Extensive research has identified the affordances used to guide actions, as originally conceived by Gibson (Perceiving, acting, and knowing: towards an ecological psychology. Erlbaum, Hillsdale, 1977; The ecological approach to visual perception. Erlbaum, Hillsdale, 1979/1986). We sought to discover the object affordance properties that determine the spatial structure of reach-to-grasp movements-movements that entail both collision avoidance and targeting. First, we constructed objects that presented a significant collision hazard and varied properties relevant to targeting, namely, object width and size of contact surface. Participants reached-to-grasp objects at three speeds (slow, normal, and fast). In Experiment 1, we explored a "stop" task where participants grasped the objects without moving them. In Experiment 2, we studied "fly-through" movements where the objects were lifted. We discovered the object affordance properties that produced covariance in the spatial structure of reaches-to-grasp. Maximum grasp aperture (MGA) reflected affordances determined by collision avoidance. Terminal grasp aperture (TGA)-when the hand stops moving but prior to finger contact-reflected affordances relevant to targeting accuracy. A model with a single free parameter predicted the prehensile spatial structure and provided a functional affordance-based account of that structure. In Experiment 3, we investigated a "slam" task where participants reached-to-grasp flat rectangular objects on a tabletop. The affordance structure of this task was found to eliminate the collision risk and thus reduced safety margins in MGA and TGA to zero for larger objects. The results emphasize the role of affordances in determining the structure and scaling of reach-to-grasp actions. Finally, we report evidence supporting the opposition vector as an appropriate unit of analysis in the study of grasping and a unit of action that maps directly to affordance properties.
675	ecological	2007	Sadler, E; Given, LM	Affordance theory: a framework for graduate students' information behavior	JOURNAL OF DOCUMENTATION	Purpose - This study seeks to apply ecological psychology's concept of "affordance" to graduate students' information behavior in the academic library, and to explore the extent to which the affordances experienced by graduate students differed from the affordances librarians were attempting to provide. Design/methodology/approach - In-depth, qualitative interviews with graduate students and academic librarians explored how the students perceived and used the library's various "opportunities for action" (e.g. books, databases, instructional sessions, librarians, physical space, etc.) and compared these perceptions and behavior with librarians' intentions and expectations. Findings - Findings indicate a disparity between expectations and experience and point to graduate students as an underserved population in this context, especially in terms of the library's outreach efforts. In addition, because graduate students are increasingly teaching introductory undergraduate courses, communication methods that bypass graduate students tend to miss undergraduate students as well. Practical implications - Practical implications discussed in this paper include possible methods of improving communication channels between graduate students and academic librarians, and considerations for information literacy instruction. Originality/value - This paper presents a unique perspective by using affordance theory to frame students and librarians' expectations about library services. The findings are particularly valuable for their implications for library-patron communication and information literacy.
676	ecological	2005	Warren, K; Schoppelrey, S; Moberg, DP; McDonald, M	A model of contagion through competition in the aggressive behaviors of elementary school students	JOURNAL OF ABNORMAL CHILD PSYCHOLOGY	This article extends the work of Kellam, Ling, Merisca, Brown and Ialongo (1998) by applying a mathematical model of competition between children to peer contagion in the aggressive behaviors of elementary school students. Nonlinearity in the relationship between group aggression and individual aggression at 2-year follow-up is present. Consistent with the findings of Kellam et al. (1998), hierarchical linear modeling indicates that the relationship is statistically significant for those students whose initial parental ratings of aggressive behavior were above the sample median. In the context of competition between students, the behavior of initially aggressive students may be negatively reinforced. Lowering aggression in the school environment may therefore be the most effective way to lower the level of these students aggressive behavior.
677	ecological	2004	Costall, A	From Darwin to Watson (and cognitivism) and back again: The principle of animal-environment mutuality	BEHAVIOR AND PHILOSOPHY	Modern cognitive psychology presents itself as the revolutionary alternative to behaviorism, yet there are blatant continuities between modem cognitivism and the mechanistic kind of behaviorism that cognitivists have in mind, such as their commitment to methodological behaviorism, the stimulus-response schema, and the hypothetico-deductive method. Both mechanistic behaviorism and cognitive behaviorism remain trapped within the dualisms created by the traditional ontology of physical science-dualisms that, one way or another, exclude us from the "physical world." Darwinian theory, however, put us back into nature. The Darwinian emphasis upon the mutuality of animal and environment was further developed by, among others, James, Dewey, and Mead. Although their functionalist approach to psychology was overtaken by Watson's behaviorism, the principle of animal-environment dualism continued to figure (though somewhat inconsistently) within the work of Skinner and Gibson. For the clearest insights into the mutuality of organism and environment we need to set the clock back quite a few years and return to the work of Darwin and the early functionalist psychologists.
678	ecological	1998	Still, A; Good, J	The ontology of mutualism	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Like ecological psychology, mutualism is a differentiation theory in which changes in perception involve differentiating against a background rather than internal elaborations on sparse inputs. In addition, the social is primary and ontologically distinct, not just the result of unusually elaborate constructions from physical inputs or of extraordinarily complex affordances, We draw our ontology from a broad tradition traced back to William James, which includes James Gibson as well as Husserl, Dewey, Heidegger, Merleau-Ponty, and Levinas. Other recent ontologies for ecological psychology have drawn on Heidegger (his concept of "equipment"; Kadar & Effken, 1994) and Merleau-Ponty (Sanders, 1993, 1997). Although both elaborate and clarify important aspects of the tradition, we And limitations in their contributions, especially in the Heideggerian account of the "the other" and in Merleau-Ponty's Cartesian attempt to separate the lived body from the body of science. We turn back to Husserl to bring out links with Gibson in their common insight into the importance of kinesthesis, and also of the social (social affordances in Gibson, intersubjectivity in Husserl) as the pivotal aspect of human experience. Neither succeeded in bringing these together in a single ontology. To do justice, for a mutualist ontology, to both kinesthesis and the social, we draw on Levinas's critique of Heidegger and his concept of "the face" or the "face to face" and its ethical "demands." Levinas seeks a source of direct awareness of such demands prior to intellectual and conceptual activity and independent of rules. This, we argue, can be found in Gibson's concept of information and kinesthesis, but to unite Levinas and Gibson in this way requires a new ontological category, corresponding to Levinas' face-to face. With this, "the other" is perceived directly as a source of an ethical demand that cannot be reduced to affordances or equipment.
679	ecological	2008	Mossio, M; Taraborelli, D	Action-dependent perceptual invariants: From ecological to sensorimotor approaches	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	Ecological and sensorimotor theories of perception build on the notion of action-dependent invariants as the basic structures underlying perceptual capacities. In this paper we contrast the assumptions these theories make oil the nature of perceptual information modulated by action. By focusing on the question, how movement specifies perceptual information, we show that ecological and sensorimotor theories endorse substantially different views about the role of action in perception. In particular we argue that ecological invariants are characterized with reference to transformations produced in the sensory array by movement: such invariants are transformation-specific but do not imply motor-specificity. In contrast, sensorimotor theories assume that perceptual invariants are intrinsically tied to specific movements. We show that this difference leads to different empirical predictions and we submit that the distinction between motor equivalence and motor-specificity needs further clarification in order to provide a more constrained account of action/perception relations. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
680	ecological	1996	Sontag, JC	Toward a comprehensive theoretical framework for disability research: Bronfenbrenner revisited	JOURNAL OF SPECIAL EDUCATION	This article critiques three features of Bronfenbrenner's (1979, 1992) ecological theory of human development in relationship to the development of children with disabilities: (a) developmentally instigative person characteristics, (b) hierarchical environmental systems of influence, and (c) the dimension of time. The study of development within the context of home, school, and community has been significantly advanced by ecological psychology. Although the ecological paradigm has been invoked in the disability literature as a framework for child, classroom, and family investigations, few studies provide a comprehensive treatment of the model. Bronfenbrenner's recently expanded theory provides a provocative framework for the study of children with disabilities. This framework includes the identification of ecological niches; that is, unique regions in the environment that differentially influence children with particular personal characteristics. Selected studies from the disability literature illustrate the incorporation of the three features into research on children with disabilities and their families. Suggestions for shifting research paradigms toward a more comprehensive approach to the study of development and change in children with disabilities are provided.
681	ecological	2010	Withagen, R; van der Kamp, J	Towards a new ecological conception of perceptual information: Lessons from a developmental systems perspective	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	Over the last decades or so, empirical studies of perception, action, learning, and development have revealed that participants vary in what variable they detect and often rely on nonspecifying variables. This casts doubt on the Gibsonian conception of information as specification. It is argued that a recent ecological conception of information has solved important problems, but insufficiently explains what determines the object of perception. Drawing on recent work on developmental systems, we sketch the outlines of an alternative conception of perceptual information. It is argued that perceptual information does not reside in the ambient arrays; rather, perceptual information is a relational property of patterns in the array and perceptual processes. What a pattern in the ambient flow informs about depends on the perceiver who uses it. We explore the implications of this alternative conception of information for the ecological approach to perception and action. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
682	ecological	2005	Morineau, T; Blanche, C; Tobin, L; Gueguen, N	The emergence of the contextual role of the e-book in cognitive processes through an ecological and functional analysis	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	An electronic book is a new means of presenting text, allowing downloading of documents and multiple readings on a portable computer. On the basis of an ecological and functional analysis of paper and electronic books with the Abstraction Hierarchy method, we tested the ability of a mobile e-book device to be an external memory trigger, assisting the recall of information content through its presence as a contextual index. In contrast to the classical experimental approach for research on reading and comprehension, we consider screen and paper as relevant cognitive tools per se. Specifically, we compare a book on a pocket computer and a paper book. Hypothesising that the physical reading support could serve as a contextual cue for memory, we experimented with groups of participants who could or could not see the support during recall. We measured the reading time, and the material later recalled was classified according to its cognitive nature. After recall, participants had to assess the sensory-motor properties of the reading support with the Osgood semantic differential and to note the humour level of the text. Results show that the e-book presence hinders recall of assimilated information whilst the presence of the paper support tends to facilitate it. Finally, we observed some correlation between sensory-motor assessment of the support and certain aspects of text cognitive processing: humour scoring, reading time and recall performance. These results lead us to conclude there is a critical relation between the sensory-motor experience of the support and the cognitive processing of the text content. This relationship might explain the positive or negative contextual effect of the support on recall performance. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
683	ecological	2003	Visalberghi, E; Neel, C	Tufted capuchins (Cebus apella) use weight and sound to choose between full and empty nuts	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Wild capuchins (Cebus apella) feed on high-energy husked fruits. Field researchers suggest that capuchins select beforehand the fruits that are worthwhile to crack open. We assessed whether captive capuchins use sound and/or weight as proximal causes to infer the fullness of a nut (full nuts are heavier and produce a low-pitched frequency sound when tapped). Two subjects had to choose between a nut shell contain, ing food and another nut shell without food differing in weight and sound (Phase 1), or weight only (Phases 2 and 4), or sound only (Phase 3). Both subjects readily solved Phase 1 and 2. The only subject who spontaneously finger-tapped on the nut shells solved Phase 3. The minimal difference in weight perceived ranged between 2.1 and 3 g. Therefore, as expected by ecological psychology and optimal foraging theory, data suggest that capuchins seek information to discriminate effectively between full and empty nuts before going through the costly opening process.
684	ecological	2000	Lickliter, R	An ecological approach to behavioral development: Insights from comparative psychology	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In this article, I review recent work from comparative psychology, highlighting several conceptual and methodological insights drawn from comparative research and exploring their value to an ecological approach to behavioral development. In particular, I consider examples of a major focus of comparative psychology, the search for developmental mechanisms and processes underlying the expression of species-typical behavior. This focus has provided several insights regarding behavioral development that have supported an ecological approach and provided a richness and depth of perspective on behavior complementary to that found in ecological psychology. Specifically, I review the related notions of probabilism, equifinality, nonlinearity, and distributed control and discuss their applicability to and support of ecological theory.
685	ecological	1997	deJong, HL	Some remarks on a relational concept of mind	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	This paper inquires whether psychology should be internalist or externalist, that is, whether it should consider mind as an entity in itself, or rather as a relation with the environment. Some influential theoretical arguments for internalist psychology are critically reviewed and it is concluded that there is no compelling reason for internalist psychological taxonomies. Next, some proposals for a functional or relational type of explanation in psychology are explored, and it is argued that they provide a workable alternative for internalist explanations. Finally, Gibson's ecological psychology is adduced to show the empirical feasibility of a psychology that explicitly includes environmental considerations in psychological taxonomies.
686	ecological	2014	Bruineberg, J; Rietveld, E	Self-organization, free energy minimization, and optimal grip on a field of affordances	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	In this paper, we set out to develop a theoretical and conceptual framework for the new field of Radical Embodied Cognitive Neuroscience. This framework should be able to integrate insights from several relevant disciplines: theory on embodied cognition, ecological psychology, phenomenology, dynamical systems theory, and neurodynamics. We suggest that the main task of Radical Embodied Cognitive Neuroscience is to investigate the phenomenon of skilled intentionality from the perspective of the self-organization of the brain-body-environment system, while doing justice to the phenomenology of skilled action. In previous work, we have characterized skilled intentionality as the organism's tendency toward an optimal grip on multiple relevant affordances simultaneously. Affordances are possibilities for action provided by the environment. In the first part of this paper, we introduce the notion of skilled intentionality and the phenomenon of responsiveness to a field of relevant affordances. Second, we use Friston's work on neurodynamics, but embed a very minimal version of his Free Energy Principle in the ecological niche of the animal. Thus amended, this principle is helpful for understanding the embeddedness of neurodynamics within the dynamics of the system "brain-body-landscape of affordances." Next, we show how we can use this adjusted principle to understand the neurodynamics of selective openness to the environment: interacting action-readiness patterns at multiple timescales contribute to the organism's selective openness to relevant affordances. In the final part of the paper, we emphasize the important role of metastable dynamics in both the brain and the brain-body-environment system for adequate affordance-responsiveness. We exemplify our integrative approach by presenting research on the impact of Deep Brain Stimulation on affordance responsiveness of OCD patients.
687	ecological	2009	Memmert, D; Perl, J	Game creativity analysis using neural networks	JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCES	Experts in ball games are characterized by extraordinary creative behaviour. This article outlines a framework for analysing types of individual development of creative performance based on neural networks. Therefore, two kinds of sport-specific training programme for the learning of game creativity in real field contexts were investigated. Two training groups (soccer, n=20; field hockey, n=17) but not a control group (n=18) improved with respect to three measuring points (P0.001), although no difference could be established between the two training groups (P=0.212). By using neural networks it is now possible to distinguish between five types of learning behaviour in the development of performance, the most striking ones being what we call up-down and down-up. In the field hockey group in particular, an up-down fluctuation process was identified, whereby creative performance increases initially, but at the end is worse than in the middle of the training programme. The reverse down-up fluctuation process was identified mainly in the soccer group. The results are discussed with regard to recent training explanation models, such as the super-compensation theory, with a view to further development of neural network applications.
688	ecological	2002	Wells, AJ	Gibson's affordances and Turing's theory of computation	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	The concept of affordance is a central component of the ecological psychology of J. J. Gibson (1966, 1977, 1979/1986). Affordances are properties of the environment taken relative to an observer. Ecological theorists have developed formal models for the analysis of affordances. Models proposed by Shaw and Turvey (1981), Turvey (1992), and Greeno (1994) are described and evaluated, and another approach, using Turing's (1936-1937/19.65) theory of computation, is outlined. Affordances are characterized as the configurations of Turing machines. It is shown that Turing's work provides a natural vehicle for exploring Gibson's ideas.
689	ecological	2013	Glaveanu, VP	Rewriting the Language of Creativity: The Five A's Framework	REVIEW OF GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY	For the past 5 decades the psychology of creativity has been influenced by what is known as the 4 P's of creative expression: person, process, product, and press. This conceptual schema, initially proposed by Rhodes (1961), helped researchers structure their thinking about the phenomenon. However, it also supported an individualistic, static, and oftentimes disjointed vision of creativity. The present article aims to rewrite this fundamental language of the discipline by using terms that explicitly endorse a systemic, contextual, and dynamic approach. The 5 A's framework- actor, action, artifact, audience, affordances- is grounded in current literature from sociocultural and ecological psychology as well as theories of the distributed mind and tries to achieve a more comprehensive and unitary perspective on creativity. Several theoretical, methodological, and practical implications are considered.
690	ecological	2012	Turvey, MT; Carello, C	On Intelligence From First Principles: Guidelines for Inquiry Into the Hypothesis of Physical Intelligence (PI)	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Gibson's (1966, 1979/1986) ecological approach to perception, action, and cognition is patently non-representational and non-computational. In the place of these commonly assumed neural endowments, ecological psychology seeks to expose the laws that underlie intelligent capabilities. It is argued that this is the goal for understanding the directed behavior of not just humans, not just animals, and not just the living. We argue that an approach to intelligence that is physically grounded is completely consistent with-and is even a natural consequence of-the central tenets of ecological psychology. We identify two dozen guidelines for seeking intelligence in first principles.
691	ecological	2001	Chemero, A	What we perceive when we perceive affordances: Commentary on Michaels (2000) "Information, perception, and action"	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In her article "Information, Perception, and Action: What Should Ecological Psychologists Learn From Milner and Goodale (1995)?" Michaels (2000) reached 2 conclusions that run very much against the grain of ecological psychology. First, she claimed that affordances are not perceived but simply acted on; second, because of this, perception and action ought to be conceived separately. These conclusions are based on a misinterpretation of empirical evidence that is, in turn, based on a conflation of 2 proper objects of perception: objectively specified objects with properties and affordances.
692	ecological	1996	Wagenaar, RC; vanEmmerik, REA	Dynamics of movement disorders	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	The expediency of the ecological and dynamical approaches to perception and action in the study of movement disorders is investigated in this special issue. Some theoretical assumptions of these approaches will be addressed and examples of its application in the field of movement disorders will be presented. The contributions in this special issue are aimed at improving diagnostics of pathological movement behavior in activities such as gait, posture as well as grasping and hitting objects. In this introduction the relevance of ecological and dynamical approaches to the treatment of movement disorders will be pinpointed as well. In particular, the role of 'discovery learning' and 'behavioral information' in relearning dynamics will be discussed.
693	ecological	2004	Fuhrer, U	Cultivating Minds: Identity as Meaning-Making Practice	CULTIVATING MINDS: IDENTITY AS MEANING-MAKING PRACTICE	0
694	ecological	2001	Kulikowich, JM; Young, MF	Locating an ecological psychology methodology for situated action	JOURNAL OF THE LEARNING SCIENCES	We attempt to describe what a methodology for situated action should do for students given problem solving in school settings. Working from an ecological account of perception-action, we propose that a methodology for understanding situated action should afford the instructional designer (often the classroom teacher), the methodologist, and the problem solver opportunities to co-construct coupling dynamics that operate on multiple space and time scales including "real time." With this goal in mind, we propose the use of the Jasper Planning Assistant (JPA), an online learning and assessment system that becomes part of the design-learning-research situation and serves as a scaffold for the learner. Through analysis of log-file data produced by the JPA, we illustrate that a methodology for situated action should be neither a purely quantitative nor qualitative account, but rather an inscription-an emergent visualization of the coupling dynamics between a student and his or her environment. We conclude that ideally this emergent inscription should reveal the multiple space times in which problem solving is occurring, yet be reductive in such a way as to create affordances for future action: Methodology should have functional value.
695	ecological	1994	KADAR, E; EFFKEN, J	HEIDEGGERIAN MEDITATIONS ON AN ALTERNATIVE ONTOLOGY FOR ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY - A RESPONSE	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In his last book, Gibson (1979/1986) clearly described crucial elements for an ontology for ecological psychology, but left his overarching ontology implicit and incomplete.  As a partial remedy, Turvey (1992) presented a compact, well-packaged outline of an ontology for ecological psychology derived in part from the work of Bunge.  In appreciation of Turvey's pioneering and thought-provoking attack on this difficult issue, we offer our own reflections on Turvey's propertied realism.  In reviewing Turvey's work we use both the insights of Heidegger and recent experimental findings in ecological psychology to argue for the need for a different ontological foundation.  We argue that a Heideggerian ontology can provide us with a broader and more complete ontological foundation with which to deal with complex issues, such as prospective control, than can Turvey's proposed ontology.  Also, we suggest that a Heideggerian ontology can be used to supply what is missing or understated in Gibson.  We argue against propertied realism as a basis for ecological psychology's ontology and contend that a proper conception of intentionality provides a way to transcend traditional object-subject ontologies.  We propose that fields should be considered real ontological entities that differ from matter.  Finally, we reflect on how the highly nonscientific language of Heidegger might possibly be formalized to make it more suitable for scientific use.
696	ecological	2014	Cisek, P; Pastor-Bernier, A	On the challenges and mechanisms of embodied decisions	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Neurophysiological studies of decision-making have focused primarily on elucidating the mechanisms of classic economic decisions, for which the relevant variables are the values of expected outcomes and action is simply the means of reporting the selected choice. By contrast, here we focus on the particular challenges of embodied decision-making faced by animals interacting with their environment in real time. In such scenarios, the choices themselves as well as their relative costs and benefits are defined by the momentary geometry of the immediate environment and change continuously during ongoing activity. To deal with the demands of embodied activity, animals require an architecture in which the sensorimotor specification of potential actions, their valuation, selection and even execution can all take place in parallel. Here, we review behavioural and neurophysiological data supporting a proposed brain architecture for dealing with such scenarios, which we argue set the evolutionary foundation for the organization of the mammalian brain.
697	ecological	2014	Strong, DM; Volkoff, O; Johnson, SA; Pelletier, LR; Tulu, B; Bar-On, I; Trudel, J; Garber, L	A Theory of Organization-EHR Affordance Actualization	JOURNAL OF THE ASSOCIATION FOR INFORMATION SYSTEMS	While organizations implement information technology (IT) to effect change, current theories of IT-associated organizational change pay insufficient attention to the change goals, the role of IT in organizational change, and the multilevel nature of change processes. We take a fresh look at IT-associated organizational change using grounded theory methods. Our longitudinal study of an electronic health record (EHR) system implementation in a multi-site medical group found user behaviors that did not fit well with existing theories. Instead, we found that they fit better with the concept of affordances from ecological psychology. In developing our affordance-based theory of IT-associated organizational change from our field data, we discovered three gaps in the affordance literature; namely, the lack of theory for (1) the process of actualizing an affordance's potential, (2) affordances in an organizational context, and (3) bundles of interrelated affordances. This paper extends the theory of affordances to handle these three gaps and, in doing so, develops a mid-range theory for EHR-associated organizational change in a healthcare organization. While the resulting theory is specific to EHR implementations, it offers a template for other mid-range affordance-actualization theories and a more general affordance-actualization lens. Our affordance-actualization lens considers the materiality of the IT artifact, the non-deterministic process by which IT leads to organizational effects, the multilevel nature of IT-associated change processes, and the intentionality of managers and users as agents of change, and thus addresses important criteria for theories of IT effects in organizations. The paper also provides practical guidance for implementing EHR systems and other organizational systems.
698	ecological	2009	Renshaw, I; Davids, K; Shuttleworth, R; Chow, JY	Insights from Ecological Psychology and Dynamical Systems. Theory can underpin a philosophy of coaching	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	The aim of this paper is to show how principles of ecological psychology and dynamical systems theory can underpin a philosophy of coaching practice in a nonlinear pedagogy. Nonlinear pedagogy is based on a view of the human movement system as a nonlinear dynamical system and has been basically defined as the application Of concepts and tools Of nonlinear dynamics to coaching practice. A systems orientation is adopted to show bow nonlinear dynamical movement systems demonstrate at? openness to environmental information flows, use inherent degeneracy to adapt movements to dynamic environments, show capacity for self-organisation, and fluctuate between stability and instability as changes in constraints on performance shape transitions in system organisation. We demonstrate bow ibis perspective of the human movement system can aid understanding of motor learning processes and underpin practice for sports coaches. We provide a description of nonlinear pedagogy followed by a consideration of some of the fundamental principles of ecological psychology and dynamical systems theory that underpin it as a coaching philosophy. We illustrate bow each principle impacts on nonlinear pedagogical coaching practice, demonstrating how they can substantiate a framework for the coaching process.
699	ecological	1993	COSTALL, A	BEYOND LINEAR PERSPECTIVE - A CUBIST MANIFESTO FOR VISUAL SCIENCE	IMAGE AND VISION COMPUTING	Both James Gibson's ecological approach to vision and recent research in computer vision have challenged linear perspective as the foundation for understanding either vision or pictures. There is a gro wing appreciation of the diversity of informative structures available to perceivers, and of the fact that many of these structures are not tied to any single viewpoint. The convergences between these approaches are explored with reference to the existing research on picture perception and production.
700	ecological	2009	Kono, T	Social Affordances and the Possibility of Ecological Linguistics	INTEGRATIVE PSYCHOLOGICAL AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE	This paper includes an effort to extend the notion of affordance from a philosophical point of view the importance of ecological approach for social psychology, ethics, and linguistics. Affordances are not always merely physical but also interpersonal and social. I will conceptualize affordance in general and social affordance in particular, and will elucidate the relation between intentional action and affordances, and that between affordances and free will. I will also focus on the relation between social institution and affordance. An extended theory of affordances can provide a way to analyze in concrete ways how social institution works as an implicit background of interpersonal interactions. Ecological approach considers social institution as the producer and maintainer of affordances. Social institutions construct the niches for human beings. Finally, I will argue the possibility of the ecological linguistics. Language is a social institution. The system of signs is the way to articulate and differentiate interpersonal affordances. Language acquires its meaning, i.e. communicative power in the interpersonal interactions, and interpersonal interactions, in turn, develop and are elaborated through the usage of signs. Communication is seen as never aimed to transmit inner ideas to others, but to guide and adjust the behaviors of others thorough articulating the affordance of responsible-ness.
701	embodied	2008	Barsalou, LW	Grounded cognition	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY	Grounded cognition rejects traditional views that cognition is computation on amodal symbols in a modular system, independent of the brain's modal systems for perception, action, and introspection. Instead, grounded cognition proposes that modal simulations, bodily states, and situated action underlie cognition. Accumulating behavioral and neural evidence supporting this view is reviewed from research on perception, memory, knowledge, language, thought, social cognition, and development. Theories of grounded cognition are also reviewed, as are origins of the area and common misperceptions of it. Theoretical, empirical, and methodological issues are raised whose future treatment is likely to affect the growth and impact of grounded cognition.
702	embodied	2002	Wilson, M	Six views of embodied cognition	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	The emerging viewpoint of embodied cognition holds that cognitive processes are deeply rooted in the body's interactions with the world. This position actually houses a number of distinct claims, some of which are more controversial than others. This paper distinguishes and evaluates the following six claims: (1) cognition is situated; (2) cognition is time-pressured; (3) we off-load cognitive work onto the environment; (4) the environment is part of the cognitive system; (5) cognition is for action; (6) offline cognition is body based. Of these, the first three and the fifth appear to be at least partially true, and their usefulness is best evaluated in terms of the range of their applicability. The fourth claim, I argue, is deeply problematic. The sixth claim has received the least attention in the literature on embodied cognition, but it may in fact be the best documented and most powerful of the six claims.
703	embodied	2005	Niedenthal, PM; Barsalou, LW; Winkielman, P; Krauth-Gruber, S; Ric, F	Embodiment in attitudes, social perception, and emotion	PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	Findings in the social psychology literatures on attitudes, social perception, and emotion demonstrate that social information processing involves embodiment, where embodiment refers both to actual bodily states and to simulations of experience in the brain's modality-specific systems for perception, action, and introspection. We show that embodiment underlies social information processing when the perceiver interacts with actual social objects (online cognition) and when the perceiver represents social objects in their absence (offline cognition). Although many empirical demonstrations of social embodiment exist, no particularly compelling account of them has been offered. We propose that theories of embodied cognition, such as the Perceptual Symbol Systems (PSS) account (Barsalou, 1999), explain and integrate these findings, and that they also suggest exciting new directions for research. We compare the PSS account to a variety of related proposals and show how it addresses criticisms that have previously posed problems for the general embodiment approach.
704	embodied	2007	Niedenthal, PM	Embodying emotion	SCIENCE	Recent theories of embodied cognition suggest new ways to look at how we process emotional information. The theories suggest that perceiving and thinking about emotion involve perceptual, somatovisceral, and motoric reexperiencing ( collectively referred to as "embodiment") of the relevant emotion in one's self. The embodiment of emotion, when induced in human participants by manipulations of facial expression and posture in the laboratory, causally affects how emotional information is processed. Congruence between the recipient's bodily expression of emotion and the sender's emotional tone of language, for instance, facilitates comprehension of the communication, whereas incongruence can impair comprehension. Taken all together, recent findings provide a scientific account of the familiar contention that "when you're smiling, the whole world smiles with you."
705	embodied	2008	Mahon, BZ; Caramazza, A	A critical look at the embodied cognition hypothesis and a new proposal for grounding conceptual content	JOURNAL OF PHYSIOLOGY-PARIS	Many studies have demonstrated that the sensory and motor systems are activated during conceptual processing. Such results have been interpreted as indicating that concepts, and important aspects of cognition more broadly, are embodied. That conclusion does not follow from the empirical evidence. The reason why is that the empirical evidence can equally be accommodated by a 'disembodied' view of conceptual representation that makes explicit assumptions about spreading activation between the conceptual and sensory and motor systems. At the same time, the strong form of the embodied cognition hypothesis is at variance with currently available neuropsychological evidence. We suggest a middle ground between the embodied and disembodied cognition hypotheses - grounding by interaction. This hypothesis combines the view that concepts are, at some level, 'abstract' and 'symbolic', with the idea that sensory and motor information may 'instantiate' online conceptual processing. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
706	embodied	2008	Schnall, S; Haidt, J; Clore, GL; Jordan, AH	Disgust as embodied moral judgment	PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY BULLETIN	How, and for whom, does disgust influence moral judgment? In four experiments participants made moral judgments while experiencing extraneous feelings of disgust. Disgust was induced in Experiment 1 by exposure to a bad smell, in Experiment 2 by working in a disgusting room, in Experiment 3 by recalling a physically disgusting experience, and in Experiment 4 through a video induction. In each case, the results showed that disgust can increase the severity of moral judgments relative to controls. Experiment 4 found that disgust had a different effect on moral judgment than did sadness. In addition, Experiments 2-4 showed that the role of disgust in severity of moral judgments depends on participants' sensitivity to their own bodily sensations. Taken together, these data indicate the importance - and specificity - of gut feelings in moral judgments.
707	embodied	2010	Cisek, P; Kalaska, JF	Neural Mechanisms for Interacting with a World Full of Action Choices	ANNUAL REVIEW OF NEUROSCIENCE, VOL 33	The neural bases of behavior are often discussed in terms of perceptual, cognitive, and motor stages, defined within an information processing framework that was originally inspired by models of human abstract problem solving. Here, we review a growing body of neurophysiological data that is difficult to reconcile with this influential theoretical perspective. As an alternative foundation for interpreting neural data, we consider frameworks borrowed from ethology, which emphasize the kinds of real-time interactive behaviors that animals have engaged in for millions of years. In particular, we discuss an ethologically-inspired view of interactive behavior as simultaneous processes that specify potential motor actions and select between them. We review how recent neurophysiological data from diverse cortical and subcortical regions appear more compatible with this parallel view than with the classical view of serial information processing stages.
708	embodied	2001	Thelen, E; Schoner, G; Scheier, C; Smith, LB	The dynamics of embodiment: A field theory of infant perseverative reaching	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The overall goal of this target article is to demonstrate a mechanism for an embodied cognition. The particular vehicle is a much-studied, but still widely debated phenomenon seen in 7-12 month-old-infants. In Piaget's classic "A-not-B error," infants who have successfully uncovered a toy at location "A" continue to reach to that location even after they watch the toy hidden in a nearby location "B." Here, we question the traditional explanations of the error as an indicator of infants' concepts of objects or other static mental structures. Instead, we demonstrate that the A-not-B error and its previously puzzling contextual variations can be understood by the coupled dynamics of the ordinary processes of goal-directed actions: looking, planning, reaching, and remembering. We offer a formal dynamic theory and model based on cognitive embodiment that both simulates the known A-not-B effects and offers novel predictions that match new experimental results. The demonstration supports an embodied view by casting the mental events involved in perception, planning, deciding, and remembering in the same analogic dynamic language as that used to describe bodily movement, so that they may be continuously meshed. We maintain that this mesh is a pre-eminently cognitive act of "knowing" not only in infancy but also in everyday activities throughout the life span.
709	embodied	2008	Casasanto, D; Boroditsky, L	Time in the mind: Using space to think about time	COGNITION	How do we construct abstract ideas like justice, mathematics, or time-travel? In this paper we investigate whether mental representations that result from physical experience underlie people's more abstract mental representations, using the domains of space and time as a test-bed. People often talk about time using spatial language (e.g., a long vacation, a short concert). Do people also think about time using spatial representations, even when they are not using language? Results of six psychophysical experiments revealed that people are unable to ignore irrelevant spatial information when making judgments about duration, but not the converse. This pattern, which is predicted by the asymmetry between space and time in linguistic metaphors, was demonstrated here in tasks that do not involve any linguistic stimuli or responses. These findings provide evidence that the metaphorical relationship between space and time observed in language also exists in our more basic representations of distance and duration. Results suggest that our mental representations of things we can never see or touch may be built, in part, out of representations of physical experiences in perception and motor action. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
710	embodied	2006	Zwaan, RA; Taylor, LJ	Seeing, acting, understanding: Motor resonance in language comprehension	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Observing actions and understanding sentences about actions activates corresponding motor processes in the observer-comprehender. In 5 experiments, the authors addressed 2 novel questions regarding language-based motor resonance. The 1st question asks whether visual motion that is associated with an action produces motor resonance in sentence comprehension. The 2nd question asks whether motor resonance is modulated during sentence comprehension. The authors' experiments provide an affirmative response to both questions. A rotating visual stimulus affects both actual manual rotation and the comprehension of manual rotation sentences. Motor resonance is modulated by the linguistic input and is a rather immediate and localized phenomenon. The results are discussed in the context of theories of action observation and mental simulation.
711	embodied	2008	Fischer, MH; Zwaan, RA	Embodied language: A review of the role of the motor system in language comprehension	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	A growing body of research suggests that comprehending verbal descriptions of actions relies on an internal simulation of the described action. To assess this motor resonance account of language comprehension, we first review recent developments in the literature on perception and action, with a view towards language processing. We then examine studies of language processing from an action simulation perspective. We conclude by discussing several criteria that might be helpful with regard to assessing the role of motor resonance during language comprehension.
712	embodied	2003	Klin, A; Jones, W; Schultz, R; Volkmar, F	The enactive mind, or from actions to cognition: lessons from autism	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON SERIES B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Normative-IQ individuals with autism are capable of solving explicit social cognitive problems at a level that is not matched by their ability to meet the demands of everyday social situations. The magnitude of this discrepancy is now being documented through newer techniques such as eye tracking, which allows us to see and measure how individuals with autism search for meaning when presented with naturalistic social scenes. This paper offers an approach to social cognitive development intended to address the above discrepancy, which is considered a key element for any understanding of the pathophysiology of autism. This approach, called the enactive mind (EM), originates from the emerging work on 'embodied cognitive science', a neuroscience framework that views cognition as bodily experiences accrued as a result of an organism's adaptive actions upon salient aspects of the surrounding environment. The EM approach offers a developmental hypothesis of autism in which the process of acquisition of embodied social cognition is derailed early on, as a result of reduced salience of social stimuli and concomitant enactment of socially irrelevant aspects of the environment.
713	embodied	2003	Anderson, ML	Embodied cognition: A field guide	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The nature of cognition is being re-considered. Instead of emphasizing formal operations on abstract symbols, the new approach foregrounds the fact that cognition is, rather, a situated activity, and suggests that thinking beings ought therefore be considered first and foremost as acting beings. The essay reviews recent work in Embodied Cognition, provides a concise guide to its principles, attitudes and goals, and identifies the physical grounding project as its central research focus. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
714	embodied	2010	Anderson, ML	Neural reuse: A fundamental organizational principle of the brain	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	An emerging class of theories concerning the functional structure of the brain takes the reuse of neural circuitry for various cognitive purposes to be a central organizational principle. According to these theories, it is quite common for neural circuits established for one purpose to be exapted (exploited, recycled, redeployed) during evolution or normal development, and be put to different uses, often without losing their original functions. Neural reuse theories thus differ from the usual understanding of the role of neural plasticity (which is, after all, a kind of reuse) in brain organization along the following lines: According to neural reuse, circuits can continue to acquire new uses after an initial or original function is established; the acquisition of new uses need not involve unusual circumstances such as injury or loss of established function; and the acquisition of a new use need not involve (much) local change to circuit structure (e.g., it might involve only the establishment of functional connections to new neural partners). Thus, neural reuse theories offer a distinct perspective on several topics of general interest, Such as: the evolution and development of the brain, including (for instance) the evolutionary-developmental pathway supporting primate tool use and human language; the degree of modularity in brain organization; the degree of localization of cognitive function; and the cortical parcellation problem and the prospects (and proper methods to employ) for function to structure mapping. The idea also has some practical implications in the areas of rehabilitative medicine and machine interface design.
715	embodied	2001	Schubert, T; Friedmann, F; Regenbrecht, H	The experience of presence: Factor analytic insights	PRESENCE-TELEOPERATORS AND VIRTUAL ENVIRONMENTS	Within an embodied cognition framework, it is argued that presence in a virtual environment (VE) develops from the construction of a spatial-functional mental model of the VE. Two cognitive processes lead to this model: the representation of bodily actions as possible actions in the VE, and the suppression of incompatible sensory input. It is hypothesized that the conscious sense of presence reflects these two components as spatial presence and involvement. This prediction was confirmed in two studies (N = 246 and N = 296) assessing self-reports of presence and immersion experiences. Additionally, judgments of "realness" were observed as a third presence component. A second-order factor analysis showed a distinction between presence, immersion, and interaction factors. Building on these results, a thirteen-item presence scale consisting of three independent components was developed and verified using confirmatory factor analyses across the two studies.
716	embodied	2009	Mahon, BZ; Caramazza, A	Concepts and Categories: A Cognitive Neuropsychological Perspective	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY	One of the most provocative and exciting issues in cognitive science is how neural specificity for semantic categories of common objects arises in the functional architecture of the brain. More than two decades of research on the neuropsychological phenomenon of category-specific semantic deficits has generated detailed claims about the organization and representation of conceptual knowledge. More recently, researchers have sought to test hypotheses developed on the basis of neuropsychological evidence with functional imaging. From those two fields, the empirical generalization emerges that object domain and sensory modality jointly constrain the organization of knowledge in the brain. At the same time, research within the embodied cognition framework has highlighted the need to articulate how information is communicated between the sensory and motor systems, and processes that represent and generalize abstract information. Those developments point toward a new approach for understanding category specificity in terms of the coordinated influences of diverse regions and cognitive systems.
717	embodied	2010	Landau, MJ; Meier, BP; Keefer, LA	A Metaphor-Enriched Social Cognition	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	Social cognition is the scientific study of the cognitive events underlying social thought and attitudes. Currently, the field's prevailing theoretical perspectives are the traditional schema view and embodied cognition theories. Despite important differences, these perspectives share the seemingly uncontroversial notion that people interpret and evaluate a given social stimulus using knowledge about similar stimuli. However, research in cognitive linguistics (e.g., Lakoff & Johnson, 1980) suggests that people construe the world in large part through conceptual metaphors, which enable them to understand abstract concepts using knowledge of superficially dissimilar, typically more concrete concepts. Drawing on these perspectives, we propose that social cognition can and should be enriched by an explicit recognition that conceptual metaphor is a unique cognitive mechanism that shapes social thought and attitudes. To advance this metaphor-enriched perspective, we introduce the metaphoric transfer strategy as a means of empirically assessing whether metaphors influence social information processing in ways that are distinct from the operation of schemas alone. We then distinguish conceptual metaphor from embodied simulation the mechanism posited by embodied cognition theories and introduce the alternate source strategy as a means of empirically teasing apart these mechanisms. Throughout, we buttress our claims with empirical evidence of the influence of metaphors on a wide range of social psychological phenomena. We outline directions for future research on the strength and direction of metaphor use in social information processing. Finally, we mention specific benefits of a metaphor-enriched perspective for integrating and generating social cognitive research and for bridging social cognition with neighboring fields.
718	embodied	2006	Nunez, RE; Sweetser, E	With the future behind them: Convergent evidence from Aymara language and gesture in the crosslinguistic comparison of spatial construals of time	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Cognitive research on metaphoric concepts of time has focused on differences between moving Ego and moving time models, but even more basic is the contrast between Ego- and temporal-reference-point models. Dynamic models appear to be quasi-universal cross-culturally, as does the generalization that in Ego-reference-point models, FUTURE IS IN FRONT OF EGO and PAST IS IN BACK OF EGO. The Aymara language instead has a major static model of time wherein FUTURE IS BEHIND EGO and PAST IS IN FRONT OF EGO; linguistic and gestural data give strong confirmation of this unusual culture-specific cognitive pattern. Gestural data provide crucial information unavailable to purely linguistic analysis, suggesting that when investigating conceptual systems both forms of expression should be analyzed complementarily. Important issues in embodied cognition are raised: how fully shared are bodily grounded motivations for universal cognitive patterns, what makes a rare pattern emerge, and what are the cultural entailments of such patterns?
719	embodied	2009	Casasanto, D	Embodiment of Abstract Concepts: Good and Bad in Right- and Left-Handers	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Do people with different kinds of bodies think differently? According to the body-specificity hypothesis, people who interact with their physical environments in systematically different ways should form correspondingly different mental representations. In a test of this hypothesis, 5 experiments investigated links between handedness and the mental representation of abstract concepts with positive or negative valence (e.g., honesty, sadness, intelligence). Mappings from spatial location to emotional valence differed between right- and left-handed participants. Right-handers tended to associate rightward space with positive ideas and leftward space with negative ideas, but left-handers showed the opposite pattern, associating rightward space with negative ideas and leftward with positive ideas. These contrasting mental metaphors for valence cannot be attributed to linguistic experience, because idioms in English associate good with right but not with left. Rather, right- and left-handers implicitly associated positive valence more strongly with the side of space on which they could act more fluently with their dominant hands. These results support the body-specificity hypothesis and provide evidence for the perceptuomotor basis of even the most abstract ideas.
720	embodied	2005	Markman, AB; Brendl, CM	Constraining theories of embodied cognition	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Influences of perceptual and motor activity on evaluation have led to theories of embodied cognition suggesting that putatively complex judgments call be carried out using only perceptual and motor representations. We present an experiment that revisited a movement-compatibility effect in which people are faster to respond to positive words by pulling a lever than by pushing a lever and tire faster to respond to negative words by pushing than by pulling. We demonstrate that the compatibility effect depends on people's representation of their selves in space rather than on their physical location. These data suggest that accounting for embodied phenomena requires and understanding the complex interplay between perceptual and motor representations and people's representations of their selves in space.
721	embodied	2007	Willems, RM; Hagoort, P	Neural evidence for the interplay between language, gesture, and action: A review	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	Co-speech gestures embody a form of manual action that is tightly coupled to the language system. As such, the co-occurrence of speech and co-speech gestures is an excellent example of the interplay between language and action. There are, however, other ways in which language and action can be thought of as closely related. In this paper we will give an overview of studies in cognitive neuroscience that examine the neural underpinnings of links between language and action. Topics include neurocognitive studies of motor representations of speech sounds, action-related language, sign language and co-speech gestures. It will be concluded that there is strong evidence on the interaction between speech and gestures in the brain. This interaction however shares general properties with other domains in which there is interplay between language and action. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
722	embodied	2008	Hostetter, AB; Alibali, MW	Visible embodiment: Gestures as simulated action	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Spontaneous gestures that accompany speech are related to both verbal and spatial processes. We argue that gestures emerge from perceptual and motor simulations that underlie embodied language and mental imagery. We first review current thinking about embodied cognition, embodied language, and embodied mental imagery. We then provide evidence that gestures stem from spatial representations and mental images. We then propose the gestures-as-simulated-action framework to explain how gestures might arise from an embodied cognitive system. Finally, we compare this framework with other current models of gesture production, and we briefly outline predictions that derive from the framework.
723	embodied	2008	Kemmerer, D; Castillo, JG; Talavage, T; Patterson, S; Wiley, C	Neuroanatomical distribution of five semantic components of verbs: Evidence from fMRI	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	The Simulation Framework, also known as the Embodied Cognition Framework, maintains that conceptual knowledge is grounded in sensorimotor systems. To test several predictions that this theory makes about the neural substrates of verb meanings; we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to scan subjects' brains while they made semantic judgments involving five classes of verbs-specifically, Running verbs (e.g., run, jog, walk), Speaking verbs (e.g., shout, mumble, whisper), Hitting verbs (e.g., hit, poke, jab), Cutting verbs (e.g., cut, slice, hack), and Change of State verbs (e.g., shatter, smash, crack). These classes were selected because they vary with respect to the presence or absence of five distinct semantic components-specifically, ACTION; MOTION, CONTACT, CHANGE OF STATE, and TOOL USE. Based on the Simulation Framework, we hypothesized that the ACTION component depends on the primary motor and premotor cortices, that the MOTION component depends on the posterolateral temporal cortex, that the CONTACT component depends on the intraparietal sulcus and inferior parietal lobule, that the CHANGE OF STATE component depends on the ventral temporal cortex, and that the TOOL USE component depends on a distributed network of temporal, parietal, and frontal regions. Virtually all of the predictions were confirmed. Taken together, these findings support the Simulation Framework and extend our understanding of the neuroanatomical distribution of different aspects of verb meaning. Published by Elsevier Inc.
724	embodied	2006	Fishbach, A; Shah, JY	Self-control in action: Implicit dispositions toward goals and away from temptations	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Five studies examined whether, in self-control dilemmas, individuals develop an implicit disposition to approach goals and avoid temptations, psychologically as well as physically. Using a method developed by A. K. Solarz (1960; see also K. L. Duckworth, J. A. Bargh, M. Garcia, & S. Chaiken, 2002), the authors assessed the time for pulling and pushing a lever in response to goal- and temptation-related stimuli (e.g., studying and partying). The results show that individuals offset the influence of tempting activities by automatically avoiding these stimuli (faster pushing responses) and by approaching stimuli related to an overarching goal (faster pulling responses). These implicit self-control dispositions varied as a function of the magnitude of the self-control conflict, itself defined by how strongly individuals were attracted to temptations and held the longer term goal. These dispositions were further shown to play a role in successful self-control.
725	embodied	2010	Niedenthal, PM; Mermillod, M; Maringer, M; Hess, U	The Simulation of Smiles (SIMS) model: Embodied simulation and the meaning of facial expression	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Recent application of theories of embodied or grounded cognition to the recognition and interpretation of facial expression of emotion has led to an explosion of research in psychology and the neurosciences. However, despite the accelerating number of reported findings, it remains unclear how the many component processes of emotion and their neural mechanisms actually support embodied simulation. Equally unclear is what triggers the use of embodied simulation versus perceptual or conceptual strategies in determining meaning. The present article integrates behavioral research from social psychology with recent research in neurosciences in order to provide coherence to the extant and future research on this topic. The roles of several of the brain's reward systems, and the amygdala, somatosensory cortices, and motor centers are examined. These are then linked to behavioral and brain research on facial mimicry and eye gaze. Articulation of the mediators and moderators of facial mimicry and gaze are particularly useful in guiding interpretation of relevant findings from neurosciences. Finally, a model of the processing of the smile, the most complex of the facial expressions, is presented as a means to illustrate how to advance the application of theories of embodied cognition in the study of facial expression of emotion.
726	embodied	2007	Oberman, LM; Winklelman, P; Ramachandran, VS	Face to face: Blocking facial mimicry can selectively impair recognition of emotional expressions	SOCIAL NEUROSCIENCE	People spontaneously mimic a variety of behaviors, including emotional facial expressions. Embodied cognition theories suggest that mimicry reflects internal simulation of perceived emotion in order to facilitate its understanding. If so, blocking facial mimicry should impair recognition of expressions, especially of emotions that are simulated using facial musculature. The current research tested this hypothesis using four expressions (happy, disgust, fear, and sad) and two mimicry-interfering manipulations (1) biting on a pen and (2) chewing gum, as well as two control conditions. Experiment 1 used electromyography over cheek, mouth, and nose regions. The bite manipulation consistently activated assessed muscles, whereas the chew manipulation activated muscles only intermittently. Further, expressing happiness generated most facial action. Experiment 2 found that the bite manipulation interfered most with recognition of happiness. These findings suggest that facial mimicry differentially contributes to recognition of specific facial expressions, thus allowing for more refined predictions from embodied cognition theories.
727	embodied	2008	Hurley, S; Clark, A; Kiverstein, J	The shared circuits model (SCM): How control, mirroring, and simulation can enable imitation, deliberation, and mindreading	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Imitation, deliberation, and mindreading are characteristically human sociocognitive skills. Research on imitation and its role in social cognition is flourishing across various disciplines. Imitation is surveyed in this target article under headings of behavior, subpersonal mechanisms, and functions of imitation. A model is then advanced within which many of the developments surveyed can be located and explained. The shared circuits model (SCM) explains how imitation, deliberation, and mindreading can be enabled by subpersonal mechanisms of control, mirroring, and simulation. It is cast at a middle, functional level of description, that is, between the level of neural implementation and the level of conscious perceptions and intentional actions. The SCM connects shared informational dynamics for perception and action with shared informational dynamics for self and other, while also showing how the action/perception, self/other, and actual/possible distinctions can be overlaid on these shared informational dynamics. It avoids the common conception of perception and action as separate and peripheral to central cognition. Rather, it contributes to the situated cognition movement by showing how mechanisms for perceiving action can be built on those for active perception.
728	embodied	2009	Raposo, A; Moss, HE; Stamatakis, EA; Tyler, LK	Modulation of motor and premotor cortices by actions, action words and action sentences	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Recent research has indicated that processing different kinds of action verbs, such as those related to arm or leg movements (e.g. grab, kick), engages regions along the motor strip responsible for the execution of the corresponding actions. It has been proposed that this activation reflects action-related meaning and that these regions are automatically triggered whenever action words are encountered. However, this view is not universally shared by cognitive studies that have shown that the representation of verbs is highly dependent on the interactions with the semantic context. We investigated these views in a set of fMRI studies, in which participants performed a movement localiser task and listened to arm- and leg-related verbs that were presented in isolation (e.g. kick), in literal sentences (as in kick the ball) and idiomatic sentences (as in kick the bucket). We found significant activation in motor regions when action verbs were presented in isolation, and, to a lesser extent, in literal sentential contexts. When the same verbs were presented in idiomatic contexts, activation was found in fronto-temporal regions, associated with language processing, but not in motor and premotor cortices. These results suggest that motor responses were context-dependent, rather than automatic and invariable. These findings lend support to cognitive theories of semantic flexibility, by showing that the nature of the semantic context determines the degree to which alternative senses and particularly relevant features are processed when a word is heard. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
729	embodied	2009	Niedenthal, PM; Mondillon, L; Winkielman, P; Vermeulen, N	Embodiment of Emotion Concepts	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Theories of embodied cognition hold that higher cognitive processes operate on perceptual symbols and that concept use involves partial reactivations of the sensory-motor states that occur during experience with the world. On this view, the processing of emotion knowledge involves a (partial) reexperience of an emotion, but only when access to the sensory basis of emotion knowledge is required by the task. In 2 experiments, participants judged emotional and neutral concepts corresponding to concrete objects (Experiment 1) and abstract states (Experiment 2) while facial electromyographic activity was recorded from the cheek, brow, eye, and nose regions. Results of both studies show embodiment of specific emotions in an emotion-focused but not a perceptual-focused processing task on the same words. A follow up in Experiment 3, which blocked selective facial expressions, suggests a causal, rather than simply a correlational, role for embodiment in emotion word processing. Experiment 4, using a property generation task, provided support for the conclusion that emotions embodied in conceptual tasks are context-dependent situated simulations rather than associated emotional reactions. Implications for theories of embodied simulation and for emotion theories are discussed.
730	embodied	2006	Reed, CL; Grubb, JD; Steele, C	Hands up: Attentional prioritization of space near the hand	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	This study explored whether hand location affected spatial attention. The authors used a visual covert-orienting paradigm to examine whether spatial attention mechanisms-location prioritization and shifting attention-were supported by bimodal, hand-centered representations of space. Placing 1 hand next to a target location, participants detected visual targets following highly predictive visual cues. There was no a priori reason for the hand to influence task performance unless hand presence influenced attention. Results showed that target detection near the hand was facilitated relative to detection away from the hand, regardless of cue validity. Similar facilitation was found with only proprioceptive or visual hand location information but not with arbitrary visual anchors or distant targets. Hand presence affected attentional prioritization of space, not the shifting of attention.
731	embodied	2000	Kaschak, MP; Glenberg, AM	Constructing meaning: The role of affordances and grammatical constructions in sentence comprehension	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	The Indexical Hypothesis describes how sentences become meaningful through grounding their interpretation in action. We develop support for the hypothesis by examining how people understand innovative denominal verbs, that is, verbs made from nouns and first encountered by participants within the experiment (e.g., to crutch). Experiments 1 and 2 demonstrated that different syntactic constructions provide scenes or goals that influence the meaning created for the innovative verbs. Experiment 3 used reading time to demonstrate that people also consider possible interactions with the objects underlying the verbs (i.e., the affordances of the objects) when creating meaning. Experiment 4 used a property verification procedure to demonstrate that the affordances derived from the objects depend on the situation-specific actions needed to complete the goal specified by the syntactic construction. Thus the evidence supports a specific type of interaction between syntax and semantics that leads to understanding: The syntax specifies a general scene, and the affordances of objects are used to Specify the scene in detail sufficient to take action. (C) 2000 Academic Press.
732	embodied	2009	Lingnau, A; Gesierich, B; Caramazza, A	Asymmetric fMRI adaptation reveals no evidence for mirror neurons in humans	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA	Neurons in macaque ventral premotor cortex and inferior parietal lobe discharge during both the observation and the execution of motor acts. It has been claimed that these so-called mirror neurons form the basis of action understanding by matching the visual input with the corresponding motor program (direct matching). Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) adaptation can be used to test the direct matching account of action recognition by determining whether putative mirror neurons show adaptation for repeated motor acts independently of whether they are observed or executed. An unambiguous test of the hypothesis requires that the motor acts be meaningless to ensure that any adaptation effect is directly because of movement recognition/motor execution and not contextually determined inferences. We found adaptation for motor acts that were repeatedly observed or repeatedly executed. We also found adaptation for motor acts that were first observed and then executed, as would be expected if a previously seen act primed the subsequent execution of that act. Crucially, we found no signs of adaptation for motor acts that were first executed and then observed. Failure to find cross-modal adaptation for executed and observed motor acts is not compatible with the core assumption of mirror neuron theory, which holds that action recognition and understanding are based on motor simulation.
733	embodied	2009	Grafton, ST	Embodied Cognition and the Simulation of Action to Understand Others	YEAR IN COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE 2009	Understanding the goals or intentions of other people requires a broad range of evaluative processes including the decoding of biological motion, knowing about object properties, and abilities for recognizing task space requirements and social contexts. It is becoming increasingly evident that some of this decoding is based in part on the simulation of other people's behavior within our own nervous system. This review focuses on aspects of action understanding that rely on embodied cognition, that is, the knowledge of the body and how it interacts with the world. This form of cognition provides an essential knowledge base from which action simulation can be used to decode at least some actions performed by others. Recent functional imaging studies or action understanding are interpreted with a goal of defining conditions when simulation operations occur and how this relates with other constructs, including top-down versus bottom-up processing and the functional distinctions between action observation and social networks. From this it is argued that action understanding emerges from the engagement of highly flexible computational hierarchies driven by simulation, object properties, social context, and kinematic constraints and where the hierarchy is driven by task structure rather than functional or strict anatomic rules.
734	embodied	2005	Kaschak, MP; Madden, CJ; Therriault, DJ; Yaxley, RH; Aveyard, M; Blanchard, AA; Zwaan, RA	Perception of motion affects language processing	COGNITION	Recently developed accounts of language comprehension propose that sentences are understood by constructing a perceptual simulation of the events being described. These simulations involve the re-activation of patterns of brain activation that were formed during the comprehender's interaction with the world. In two experiments we explored the specificity of the processing mechanisms required to construct simulations during language comprehension. Participants listened to (and made judgments on) sentences that described motion in a particular direction (e.g. "The car approached you"). They simultaneously viewed dynamic black-and-white stimuli that produced the perception of movement in the same direction as the action specified in the sentence (i.e. towards you) or in the opposite direction as the action specified in the sentence (i.e. away from you). Responses were faster to sentences presented concurrently with a visual stimulus depicting motion in the opposite direction as the action described in the sentence. This suggests that the processing mechanisms recruited to construct simulations during language comprehension are also used during visual perception, and that these mechanisms can be quite specific. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
735	embodied	2006	de Lange, FP; Helmich, RC; Toni, I	Posture influences motor imagery: An fMRI study	NEUROIMAGE	Motor imagery is widely used to study cognitive aspects of the neural control of action. However, what is exactly simulated during motor imagery is still a matter of debate. On the one hand, it is conceivable that motor imagery is an embodied cognitive process, involving a simulation of movements of one's own body. The alternative possibility is that, although motor imagery relies on knowledge of the motor processes, it does not entail an actual motor simulation that is influenced by the physical configuration of one's own body. Here we discriminate between these two hypotheses, in the context of an established motor imagery task: laterality judgments of rotated hand drawings. We found that reaction times of hand laterality judgments followed the biomechanical constraints of left or right hand movements. Crucially, the position of subjects' own left and right arm influenced laterality judgments of left and right hands. In neural terms, hand laterality judgments activated a parieto-frontal network. The activity within this network increased with increasing biomechanical complexity of the imagined hand movements, even when the amount of stimulus rotation was identical. Moreover, activity in the intraparietal sulcus was modulated by subjects' own hand position: a larger incongruence in orientation between the subjects' hand and the stimulus hand led to a selective increase in intraparietal activity. Our results indicate that motor imagery generates motor plans that depend on the current configuration of the limbs. This motor plan is calculated by a parieto-frontal network. Within this network, the posterior parietal cortex appears to incorporate proprioceptive information related to the current position of the body into the motor plan. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
736	embodied	2008	Bub, DN; Masson, MEJ; Cree, GS	Evocation of functional and volumetric gestural knowledge by objects and words	COGNITION	We distinguish between grasping gestures associated with using an object for its intended purpose (functional) and those used to pick up an object (volumetric) and we develop a novel experimental framework to show that both kinds of knowledge are automatically evoked by objects and by words denoting those objects. Cued gestures were carried out in the context of depicted objects or visual words. On incongruent trials, the cued gesture was not compatible with gestures typically associated with the contextual item. On congruent trials, the gesture was compatible with the item's functional or volumetric gesture. For both gesture types, response latency was longer for incongruent trials indicating that objects and words elicited both functional and volumetric manipulation knowledge. Additional evidence, however, clearly supports a distinction between these two kinds of gestural knowledge. Under certain task conditions, functional gestures can be evoked without the associated activation of volumetric gestures. We discuss the implication of these results for theories of action evoked by objects and words, and for interpretation of functional imaging results. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
737	embodied	2010	Barsalou, LW	Grounded Cognition: Past, Present, and Future	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Thirty years ago, grounded cognition had roots in philosophy, perception, cognitive linguistics, psycholinguistics, cognitive psychology, and cognitive neuropsychology. During the next 20 years, grounded cognition continued developing in these areas, and it also took new forms in robotics, cognitive ecology, cognitive neuroscience, and developmental psychology. In the past 10 years, research on grounded cognition has grown rapidly, especially in cognitive neuroscience, social neuroscience, cognitive psychology, social psychology, and developmental psychology. Currently, grounded cognition appears to be achieving increased acceptance throughout cognitive science, shifting from relatively minor status to increasing importance. Nevertheless, researchers wonder whether grounded mechanisms lie at the heart of the cognitive system or are peripheral to classic symbolic mechanisms. Although grounded cognition is currently dominated by demonstration experiments in the absence of well-developed theories, the area is likely to become increasingly theory driven over the next 30 years. Another likely development is the increased incorporation of grounding mechanisms into cognitive architectures and into accounts of classic cognitive phenomena. As this incorporation occurs, much functionality of these architectures and phenomena is likely to remain, along with many original mechanisms. Future theories of grounded cognition are likely to be heavily influenced by both cognitive neuroscience and social neuroscience, and also by developmental science and robotics. Aspects from the three major perspectives in cognitive science-classic symbolic architectures, statistical/dynamical systems, and grounded cognition-will probably be integrated increasingly in future theories, each capturing indispensable aspects of intelligence.
738	embodied	2008	Uleman, JS; Saribay, SA; Gonzalez, CM	Spontaneous inferences, implicit impressions, and implicit theories	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY	People make social inferences without intentions awareness or effort, i.e., spontaneously. We review recent findings on spontaneous social inferences (especially traits, goals, and causes) and closely related phenomena. We then describe current thinking on some of the most relevant processes, implicit knowledge, and theories. These include automatic and controlled processes and their interplay; embodied cognition, including mimicry; and associative versus rule-based processes. Implicit knowledge includes adult folk theories, conditions of personhood, self-knowledge to simulate others, and cultural and social class differences. Implicit theories concern Bayesian networks, recent attribution research, and questions about the utility of the disposition-situation dichotomy. Developmental research provides new insights. Spontaneous social inferences include a growing array of phenomena, but they have been insufficiently linked to other phenomena and theories. We hope the links suggested in this review begin to remedy this.
739	embodied	2011	Bohner, G; Dickel, N	Attitudes and Attitude Change	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY, VOL 62	Attitudes and attitude change remain core topics of contemporary social psychology. This selective review emphasizes work published from 2005 to 2009. It addresses constructionist and stable-entity conceptualizations of attitude, the distinction between implicit and explicit measures of attitude, and implications of the foregoing for attitude change. Associative and propositional processes in attitude change are considered at a general level and in relation to evaluative conditioning. The role of bodily states and physical perceptions in attitude change is reviewed. This is followed by an integrative perspective on processing models of persuasion and the consideration of meta-cognitions in persuasion. Finally, effects of attitudes on information processing, social memory, and behavior are highlighted. Core themes cutting across the areas reviewed are attempts at integrative theorizing bringing together formerly disparate phenomena and viewpoints.
740	embodied	2008	Pitcher, D; Garrido, L; Walsh, V; Duchaine, BC	Transcranial magnetic stimulation disrupts the perception and embodiment of facial expressions	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Theories of embodied cognition propose that recognizing facial expressions requires visual processing followed by simulation of the somatovisceral responses associated with the perceived expression. To test this proposal, we targeted the right occipital face area (rOFA) and the face region of right somatosensory cortex (rSC) with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) while participants discriminated facial expressions. rTMS selectively impaired discrimination of facial expressions at both sites but had no effect on a matched face identity task. Site specificity within the rSC was demonstrated by targeting rTMS at the face and finger regions while participants performed the expression discrimination task. rTMS targeted at the face region impaired task performance relative to rTMS targeted at the finger region. To establish the temporal course of visual and somatosensory contributions to expression processing, double-pulse TMS was delivered at different times to rOFA and rSC during expression discrimination. Accuracy dropped when pulses were delivered at 60-100 ms at rOFA and at 100-140 and 130-170 ms at rSC. These sequential impairments at rOFA and rSC support embodied accounts of expression recognition as well as hierarchical models of face processing. The results also demonstrate that nonvisual cortical areas contribute during early stages of expression processing.
741	embodied	2008	Cook, SW; Mitchell, Z; Goldin-Meadow, S	Gesturing makes learning last	COGNITION	The gestures children spontaneously produce when explaining a task predict whether they will subsequently learn that task. Why? Gesture might simply reflect a child's readiness to learn a particular task. Alternatively, gesture might itself play a role in learning the task. To investigate these alternatives, we experimentally manipulated children's gesture during instruction in a new mathematical concept. We found that requiring children to gesture while learning the new concept helped them retain the knowledge they had gained during instruction. In contrast, requiring children to speak, but not gesture, while learning the concept had no effect on solidifying learning. Gesturing can thus play a causal role in learning, perhaps by giving learners an alternative, embodied way of representing new ideas. We may be able to improve children's learning just by encouraging them to move their hands. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
742	embodied	2007	Phillips-Silver, J; Trainor, LJ	Hearing what the body feels: Auditory encoding of rhythmic movement	COGNITION	Phillips-Silver and Trainor (Phillips-Silver, J., Trainor, L.J., (2005). Feeling the beat: movement influences infants' rhythm perception. Science, 308, 1430) demonstrated an early cross-modal interaction between body movement and auditory encoding of musical rhythm in infants. Here we show that the way adults move their bodies to music influences their auditory perception of the rhythm structure. We trained adults, while listening to an ambiguous rhythm with no accented beats, to bounce by bending their knees to interpret the rhythm either as a march or as a waltz. At test, adults identified as similar an auditory version of the rhythm pattern with accented strong beats that matched their previous bouncing experience in comparison with a version whose accents did not match. In subsequent experiments we showed that this effect does not depend on visual information, but that movement of the body is critical. Parallel results from adults and infants suggest that the movement-sound interaction develops early and is fundamental to music processing throughout life. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
743	embodied	2008	Kiefer, M; Sim, EJ; Herrnberger, B; Grothe, J; Hoenig, K	The Sound of Concepts: Four Markers for a Link between Auditory and Conceptual Brain Systems	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Traditionally, concepts are conceived as abstract mental entities distinct from perceptual or motor brain systems. However, recent results let assume modality-specific representations of concepts. The ultimate test for grounding concepts in perception requires the fulfillment of the following four markers: conceptual processing during (1) an implicit task should activate (2) a perceptual region (3) rapidly and (4) selectively. Here, we show using functional magnetic resonance imaging and recordings of event-related potentials, that acoustic conceptual features recruit auditory brain areas even when implicitly presented through visual words. Fulfilling the four markers, the findings of our study unequivocally link the auditory and conceptual brain systems: recognition of words denoting objects, for which acoustic features are highly relevant (e. g.,"telephone"), ignited cell assemblies in posterior superior and middle temporal gyri (pSTG/MTG) within 150 ms that were also activated by sound perception. Importantly, activity within a cluster of pSTG/MTG increased selectively as a function of acoustic, but not of visual and action-related feature relevance. The implicitness of the conceptual task, the selective modulation of left pSTG/MTG activity by acoustic feature relevance, the early onset of this activity at 150 ms and its anatomical overlap with perceptual sound processing are four markers for a modality-specific representation of auditory conceptual features in left pSTG/MTG. Our results therefore provide the first direct evidence for a link between perceptual and conceptual acoustic processing. They demonstrate that access to concepts involves a partial reinstatement of brain activity during the perception of objects.
744	embodied	2011	Eskine, KJ; Kacinik, NA; Prinz, JJ	A Bad Taste in the Mouth: Gustatory Disgust Influences Moral Judgment	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Can sweet-tasting substances trigger kind, favorable judgments about other people? What about substances that are disgusting and bitter? Various studies have linked physical disgust to moral disgust, but despite the rich and sometimes striking findings these studies have yielded, no research has explored morality in conjunction with taste, which can vary greatly and may differentially affect cognition. The research reported here tested the effects of taste perception on moral judgments. After consuming a sweet beverage, a bitter beverage, or water, participants rated a variety of moral transgressions. Results showed that taste perception significantly affected moral judgments, such that physical disgust (induced via a bitter taste) elicited feelings of moral disgust. Further, this effect was more pronounced in participants with politically conservative views than in participants with politically liberal views. Taken together, these differential findings suggest that embodied gustatory experiences may affect moral processing more than previously thought.
745	embodied	2010	Willems, RM; Hagoort, P; Casasanto, D	Body-Specific Representations of Action Verbs: Neural Evidence From Right- and Left-Handers	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	According to theories of embodied cognition, understanding a verb like throw involves unconsciously simulating the action of throwing, using areas of the brain that support motor planning. If understanding action words involves mentally simulating one's own actions, then the neurocognitive representation of word meanings should differ for people with different kinds of bodies, who perform actions in systematically different ways. In a test of the body-specificity hypothesis, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to compare premotor activity correlated with action verb understanding in right- and left-handers. Right-handers preferentially activated the left premotor cortex during lexical decisions on manual-action verbs (compared with nonmanual-action verbs), whereas left-handers preferentially activated right premotor areas. This finding helps refine theories of embodied semantics, suggesting that implicit mental simulation during language processing is body specific: Right- and left-handers,who perform actions differently, use correspondingly different areas of the brain for representing action verb meanings.
746	embodied	2004	Zwaan, RA; Madden, CJ; Yaxley, RH; Aveyard, ME	Moving words: dynamic representations in language comprehension	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Eighty-two participants listened to sentences and then judged whether two sequentially presented visual objects were the same. On critical trials, participants heard a sentence describe the motion of a ball toward or away from the observer (e.g., "The pitcher hurled the softball to you"). Seven hundred and fifty milliseconds after the offset of the sentence, a picture of an object was presented for 500 ms, followed by another picture. On critical trials, the two pictures depicted the kind of ball mentioned in the sentence. The second picture was displayed 175 ms after the first. Crucially, it was either slightly larger or smaller than the first picture, thus suggesting movement of the ball toward or away from the observer. Participants responded more quickly when the implied movement of the balls matched the movement described in the sentence. This result provides support for the view that language comprehension involves dynamic perceptual simulations. (C) 2004 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
747	embodied	2007	Broaders, SC; Cook, SW; Mitchell, Z; Goldin-Meadow, S	Making children gesture brings out implicit knowledge and leads to learning	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Speakers routinely gesture with their hands when they talk, and those gestures often convey information not found anywhere in their speech. This information is typically not consciously accessible, yet it provides an early sign that the speaker is ready to learn a particular task (S. Goldin-Meadow, 2003). In this sense, the unwitting gestures that speakers produce reveal their implicit knowledge. But what if a learner was forced to gesture? Would those elicited gestures also reveal implicit knowledge and, in so doing, enhance learning? To address these questions, the authors told children to gesture while explaining their solutions to novel math problems and examined the effect of this manipulation on the expression of implicit knowledge in gesture and on learning. The authors found that, when told to gesture, children who were unable to solve the math problems often added new and correct problem-solving strategies, expressed only in gesture, to their repertoires. The authors also found that when these children were given instruction on the math problems later, they were more likely to succeed on the problems than children told not to gesture. Telling children to gesture thus encourages them to convey previously unexpressed, implicit ideas, which, in turn, makes them receptive to instruction that leads to learning.
748	embodied	2005	Smith, L; Gasser, M	The development of embodied cognition: Six lessons from babies	ARTIFICIAL LIFE	The embodiment hypothesis is the idea that intelligence emerges in the interaction of an agent with an environment and as a result of sensorimotor activity. We offer six lessons for developing, embodied intelligent agents suggested by research in developmental psychology. We argue that starting as a baby grounded in a physical, social, and linguistic world is crucial to the development of the flexible and inventive intelligence that characterizes humankind.
749	embodied	2006	Gray, WD; Sims, CR; Fu, WT; Schoelles, MJ	The soft constraints hypothesis: A rational analysis approach to resource allocation for interactive behavior	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Soft constraints hypothesis (SCH) is a rational analysis approach that holds that the mixture of perceptual-motor and cognitive resources allocated for interactive behavior is adjusted based on temporal cost-benefit tradeoffs. Alternative approaches maintain that cognitive resources are in some sense protected or conserved in that greater amounts of perceptual-motor effort will be expended to conserve lesser amounts of cognitive effort. One alternative, the minimum memory hypothesis (MMH), holds that people favor strategies that minimize the use of memory. SCH is compared with MMH across 3 experiments and with predictions of an Ideal Performer Model that uses ACT-R's memory system in a reinforcement learning approach that maximizes expected utility by minimizing time. Model and data support the SCH view of resource allocation; at the under 1000-ms level of analysis, mixtures of cognitive and perceptual-motor resources are adjusted based on their cost-benefit tradeoffs for interactive behavior.
750	embodied	2010	Buxbaum, LJ; Kalenine, S	Action knowledge, visuomotor activation, and embodiment in the two action systems	YEAR IN COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE 2010	Scientific interest in the relationship between cognition and action has increased markedly in the past several years, fueled by the discovery of mirror neurons in monkey prefrontal and parietal cortex and by the emergence of a movement in cognitive psychology, termed the embodied cognition framework, which emphasizes the role of simulation in cognitive representations. Guided by a functional neuroanatomic model called the Two Action Systems account, which posits numerous points of differentiation between structure- and function-based actions, we focus on two of the major issues under recent scrutiny: the relationship between representations for action production and recognition, and the role of action in object representations. We suggest that mirror neurons in humans are not critical for full action understanding, and that only function-based (and not structure-based) action is a component of embodied object concepts.
751	embodied	2001	Wilson, M	The case for sensorimotor coding in working memory	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	The highly influential Baddeley and Hitch model of working memory (Baddeley & Hitch, 1974; see also Baddeley, 1986) posited analogical forms of representation that can be broadly characterized as sensorimotor, both for verbal and for visuospatial material. However, difficulties with the model of verbal working memory in particular have led investigators to develop alternative models that avoid appealing either to sensory coding or to motoric coding, or to both. This paper examines the evidence for sensorimotor coding in working memory, including evidence from neuropsychology and from sign language research, as well as from standard working memory paradigms, and concludes that only a sensorimotor model can accommodate the broad range of effects that characterize verbal working memory. In addition, several findings that have been considered to speak against sensorimotor involvement are reexamined and are argued to be in fact compatible with sensorimotor coding. These conclusions have broad implications, in that they support the emerging theoretical viewpoint of embodied cognition.
752	embodied	2007	Negri, GAL; Rumiati, RI; Zadini, A; Ukmar, M; Mahon, BZ; Caramazza, A	What is the role of motor simulation in action and object recognition? Evidence from apraxia	COGNITIVE NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	An important issue in contemporary cognitive neuroscience concerns the role of motor production processes in perceptual and conceptual analysis. To address this issue, we studied the performance of a large group of unilateral stroke patients across a range of tasks using the same set of common manipulable objects. All patients (n = 37) were tested for their ability to demonstrate the use of the objects, recognize the objects, recognize the corresponding object-associated pantomimes, and imitate those same pantomimes. At the group level we observed reliable correlations between object use and pantomime recognition, object use and object recognition, and pantomime imitation and pantomime recognition. At the single-case level, we document that the ability to recognize actions and objects dissociates from the ability to use those same objects. These data are problematic for the hypothesis that motor processes are constitutively involved in the recognition of actions and objects and frame new questions about the inferences that are merited by recent findings in cognitive neuroscience.
753	embodied	2009	Goldman, A; de Vignemont, F	Is social cognition embodied?	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Theories of embodied cognition abound in the literature, but it is often unclear how to understand them. We offer several interpretations of embodiment, the most interesting being the thesis that mental representations in bodily formats (B-formats) have an important role in cognition. Potential B-formats include motoric, somatosensory, affective and interoceptive formats. The literature on mirroring and related phenomena provides support for a limited-scope version of embodied social cognition under the B-format interpretation. It is questionable, however, whether such a thesis can be extended. We show the limits of embodiment in social cognition.
754	embodied	2004	Gray, WD; Fu, WT	Soft constraints in interactive behavior: the case of ignoring perfect knowledge in-the-world for imperfect knowledge in-the-head	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Constraints and dependencies among the elements of embodied cognition form patterns or microstrategies of interactive behavior. Hard constraints determine which microstrategies are possible. Soft constraints determine which of the possible microstrategies are most likely to be selected. When selection is non-deliberate or automatic the least effort microstrategy is chosen. In calculating the effort required to execute a microstrategy each of the three types of operations, memory retrieval, perception, and action, are given equal weight; that is, perceptual-motor activity does not have a privileged status with respect to memory. Soft constraints can work contrary to the designer's intentions by making the access of perfect knowledge in-the-world more effortful than the access of imperfect knowledge in-the-head. These implications of soft constraints are tested in two experiments. In experiment 1 we varied the perceptual-motor effort of accessing knowledge in-the-world as well as the effort of retrieving items from memory. In experiment 2 we replicated one of the experiment I conditions to collect eye movement data. The results suggest that milliseconds matter. Soft constraints lead to a reliance on knowledge in-the-head even when the absolute difference in perceptual-motor versus memory retrieval effort is small, and even when relying on memory leads to a higher error rate and lower performance. We discuss the implications of soft constraints for routine interactive behavior, accounts of embodied cognition, and tool and interface design. (C) 2004 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
755	embodied	2012	Zaki, J; Davis, JI; Ochsner, KN	Overlapping activity in anterior insula during interoception and emotional experience	NEUROIMAGE	Classic theories of emotion posit that awareness of one's internal bodily states (interoception) is a key component of emotional experience. This view has been indirectly supported by data demonstrating similar patterns of brain activity - most importantly, in the anterior insula - during both interoception and emotion elicitation. However, no study has directly compared these two phenomena within participants, leaving it unclear whether interoception and emotional experience truly share the same functional neural architecture. The current study addressed this gap in knowledge by examining the neural convergence of these two phenomena within the same population. In one task, participants monitored their own heartbeat: in another task they watched emotional video clips and rated their own emotional responses to the videos. Consistent with prior research, heartbeat monitoring engaged a circumscribed area spanning insular cortex and adjacent inferior frontal operculum. Critically, this interoception-related cluster also was engaged when participants rated their own emotion, and activity here correlated with the trial-by-trial intensity of participants' emotional experience. These findings held across both group-level and individual participant-level approaches to localizing interoceptive cortex. Together, these data further clarify the functional role of the anterior insula and provide novel insights about the connection between bodily awareness and emotion. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
756	embodied	2012	Krishna, A	An integrative review of sensory marketing: Engaging the senses to affect perception, judgment and behavior	JOURNAL OF CONSUMER PSYCHOLOGY	I define "sensory marketing" as "marketing that engages the consumers' senses and affects their perception, judgment and behavior." From a managerial perspective, sensory marketing can be used to create subconscious triggers that characterize consumer perceptions of abstract notions of the product (e.g., its sophistication or quality). Given the gamut of explicit marketing appeals made to consumers every day, subconscious triggers which appeal to the basic senses may be a more efficient way to engage consumers. Also, these sensory triggers may result in consumers' self-generation of (desirable) brand attributes, rather than those verbally provided by the advertiser. The understanding of these sensory triggers implies an understanding of sensation and perception as it applies to consumer behavior-this is the research perspective of sensory marketing. This review article presents an overview of research on sensory perception. The review also points out areas where little research has been done, so that each additional paper has a greater chance of making a bigger difference and sparking further research. It is quite apparent from the review that there still remains tremendous need for research within the domain of sensory marketing-research that can be very impactful. (C) 2011 Society for Consumer Psychology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
757	embodied	2009	Makeig, S; Gramann, K; Jung, TP; Sejnowski, TJ; Poizner, H	Linking brain, mind and behavior	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PSYCHOPHYSIOLOGY	Cortical brain areas and dynamics evolved to organize motor behavior in our three-dimensional environment also support more general human cognitive processes. Yet traditional brain imaging paradigms typically allow and record only minimal participant behavior, then reduce the recorded data to single map features of averaged responses. To more fully investigate the complex links between distributed brain dynamics and motivated natural behavior, we propose the development of wearable mobile brain/body imaging (MoBI) systems that continuously capture the wearer's high-density electrical brain and muscle signals, three-dimensional body movements, audiovisual scene and point of regard, plus new data-driven analysis methods to model their interrelationships. The new imaging modality should allow new insights into how spatially distributed brain dynamics support natural human cognition and agency. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
758	embodied	2010	Cattaneo, L; Sandrini, M; Schwarzbach, J	State-Dependent TMS Reveals a Hierarchical Representation of Observed Acts in the Temporal, Parietal, and Premotor Cortices	CEREBRAL CORTEX	A transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) adaptation paradigm was used to investigate the neural representation of observed motor behavior in the inferior parietal lobule (IPL), ventral premotor cortex (PMv), and in the cortex around the superior temporal sulcus (STS). Participants were shown adapting movies of a hand or a foot acting on different objects and were asked to compare to the movie, a motor act shown in test pictures. The invariant features between adapting and test stimuli fitted a 2 x 2 design: same or different action made by the same or different effector. Neuro-navigated TMS pulses were delivered at the onset of each test picture. TMS over the left and right PMv and over the left IPL induced a selective shortening of reaction times (RTs) to stimuli showing a repeated (adapted) action, regardless of the effector performing it. In a second experiment, TMS applied over the left STS induced shortening of RTs for adapted actions but only if also the effector was repeated. The results indicate that observed motor behavior is encoded with the body part that performs it in the temporal lobe. A hierarchically higher level of representation is carried by neural populations in the parietofrontal regions, where acts are encoded in an abstract way.
759	embodied	2010	Havas, DA; Glenberg, AM; Gutowski, KA; Lucarelli, MJ; Davidson, RJ	Cosmetic Use of Botulinum Toxin-A Affects Processing of Emotional Language	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	How does language reliably evoke emotion, as it does when people read a favorite novel or listen to a skilled orator? Recent evidence suggests that comprehension involves a mental simulation of sentence content that calls on the same neural systems used in literal action, perception, and emotion. In this study, we demonstrated that involuntary facial expression plays a causal role in the processing of emotional language. Subcutaneous injections of botulinum toxin-A (BTX) were used to temporarily paralyze the facial muscle used in frowning. We found that BTX selectively slowed the reading of sentences that described situations that normally require the paralyzed muscle for expressing the emotions evoked by the sentences. This finding demonstrates that peripheral feedback plays a role in language processing, supports facial-feedback theories of emotional cognition, and raises questions about the effects of BTX on cognition and emotional reactivity. We account for the role of facial feedback in language processing by considering neurophysiological mechanisms and reinforcement-learning theory.
760	embodied	2009	Papeo, L; Vallesi, A; Isaja, A; Rumiati, RI	Effects of TMS on Different Stages of Motor and Non-Motor Verb Processing in the Primary Motor Cortex	PLOS ONE	The embodied cognition hypothesis suggests that motor and premotor areas are automatically and necessarily involved in understanding action language, as word conceptual representations are embodied. This transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) study explores the role of the left primary motor cortex in action-verb processing. TMS-induced motor-evoked potentials from right-hand muscles were recorded as a measure of M1 activity, while participants were asked either to judge explicitly whether a verb was action-related (semantic task) or to decide on the number of syllables in a verb (syllabic task). TMS was applied in three different experiments at 170, 350 and 500 ms post-stimulus during both tasks to identify when the enhancement of M1 activity occurred during word processing. The delays between stimulus onset and magnetic stimulation were consistent with electrophysiological studies, suggesting that word recognition can be differentiated into early (within 200 ms) and late (within 400 ms) lexical-semantic stages, and post-conceptual stages. Reaction times and accuracy were recorded to measure the extent to which the participants' linguistic performance was affected by the interference of TMS with M1 activity. No enhancement of M1 activity specific for action verbs was found at 170 and 350 ms post-stimulus, when lexical-semantic processes are presumed to occur (Experiments 1-2). When TMS was applied at 500 ms post-stimulus (Experiment 3), processing action verbs, compared with non-action verbs, increased the M1-activity in the semantic task and decreased it in the syllabic task. This effect was specific for hand-action verbs and was not observed for action-verbs related to other body parts. Neither accuracy nor RTs were affected by TMS. These findings suggest that the lexical-semantic processing of action verbs does not automatically activate the M1. This area seems to be rather involved in post-conceptual processing that follows the retrieval of motor representations, its activity being modulated (facilitated or inhibited), in a top-down manner, by the specific demand of the task.
761	embodied	2011	Wilson-Mendenhall, CD; Barrett, LF; Simmons, WK; Barsalou, LW	Grounding emotion in situated conceptualization	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	According to the Conceptual Act Theory of Emotion, the situated conceptualization used to construe a situation determines the emotion experienced. A neuroimaging experiment tested two core hypotheses of this theory: (1) different situated conceptualizations produce different forms of the same emotion in different situations, (2) the composition of a situated conceptualization emerges from shared multimodal circuitry distributed across the brain that produces emotional states generally. To test these hypotheses, the situation in which participants experienced an emotion was manipulated. On each trial, participants immersed themselves in a physical danger or social evaluation situation and then experienced fear or anger. According to Hypothesis 1, the brain activations for the same emotion should differ as a function of the preceding situation (after removing activations that arose while constructing the situation). According to Hypothesis 2, the critical activations should reflect conceptual processing relevant to the emotion in the current situation, drawn from shared multimodal circuitry underlying emotion. The results supported these predictions and demonstrated the compositional process that produces situated conceptualizations dynamically. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
762	embodied	2010	Borghi, AM; Cimatti, F	Embodied cognition and beyond: Acting and sensing the body	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Embodied cognition (EC) underlines that cognition is constrained by the kind of body we possess, and stresses the importance of action for cognition. In this perspective the body is always considered as an acting body. Here, we review EC literature discussing studies that show that body parts are not considered independent of their involvement in action. We propose to extend EC perspective through studying the body independently from its direct involvement in goal-directed action. Through this we aim to avoid the risk of limiting the notion of "sense of the body" to the restricted boundaries of the flesh of brain-body system. In our extended perspective language is considered as a form of action too. We propose that: (a) internal language (i.e. social language used as an internal medium for thought and planning) can contribute to form a unitary sense of our body, and (b) language can help to reshape the way we implicitly perceive our own body. Namely, it can modify our sense of body by extending its boundaries beyond the boundaries of the anatomical body. We argue for an integrated notion of bodily self-suggesting that the internal sense and the boundaries of the human body coincide with the extensions that linguistic tools allow. In sum, the basic idea we hold is that human body is a social entity. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
763	embodied	2013	Wilson, AD; Golonka, S	Embodied cognition is not what you think it is	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The most exciting hypothesis in cognitive science right now is the theory that cognition is embodied. Like all good ideas in cognitive science, however, embodiment immediately came to mean six different things. The most common definitions involve the straightforward claim that "states of the body modify states of the mind." However, the implications of embodiment are actually much more radical than this. If cognition can span the brain, body, and the environment, then the "states of mind" of disembodied cognitive science won't exist to be modified. Cognition will instead be an extended system assembled from a broad array of resources. Taking embodiment seriously therefore requires both new methods and theory. Here we outline four key steps that research programs should follow in order to fully engage with the implications of embodiment. The first step is to conduct a task analysis, which characterizes from a first person perspective the specific task that a perceiving-acting cognitive agent is faced with. The second step is to identify the task-relevant resources the agent has access to in order to solve the task. These resources can span brain, body, and environment. The third step is to identify how the agent can assemble these resources into a system capable of solving the problem at hand. The last step is to test the agent's performance to confirm that agent is actually using the solution identified in step 3. We explore these steps in more detail with reference to two useful examples (the outfielder problem and the A-not-B error), and introduce how to apply this analysis to the thorny question of language use. Embodied cognition is more than we think it is, and we have the tools we need to realize its full potential.
764	embodied	2011	Fischer, MH; Brugger, P	When digits help digits: spatial-numerical associations point to finger counting as prime example of embodied cognition	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Spatial numerical associations (SNAs) are prevalent yet their origin is poorly understood. We first consider the possible prime role of reading habits in shaping SNAs and list three observations that argue against a prominent influence of this role: (1) directional reading habits for numbers may conflict with those for non-numerical symbols, (2) short-term experimental manipulations can overrule the impact of decades of reading experience, (3) SNAs predate the acquisition of reading. As a promising alternative, we discuss behavioral, neuroscientific, and neuropsychological evidence in support of finger counting as the most likely initial determinant of SNAs. Implications of this "manumerical cognition" stance for the distinction between grounded, embodied, and situated cognition are discussed.
765	embodied	2004	Garbarini, F; Adenzato, M	At the root of embodied cognition: Cognitive science meets neurophysiology	BRAIN AND COGNITION	Recent experimental research in the field of neurophysiology has led to the discovery of two classes of visuomotor neurons: canonical neurons and mirror neurons. In light of these studies, we propose here an overview of two classical themes in the cognitive science panorama: James Gibson's theory of affordances and Eleanor Rosch's principles of categorization. We discuss how theoretical perspectives and neuroscientific evidence are converging towards the current paradigm of embodied cognition. From this perspective, we discuss the role of action and simulation in cognitive processes, which lead to the perceptual recognition of objects, and actions and to their conceptual categorization. (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
766	embodied	2010	Hutchins, E	Cognitive Ecology	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Cognitive ecology is the study of cognitive phenomena in context. In particular, it points to the web of mutual dependence among the elements of a cognitive ecosystem. At least three fields were taking a deeply ecological approach to cognition 30 years ago: Gibson's ecological psychology, Bateson's ecology of mind, and Soviet cultural-historical activity theory. The ideas developed in those projects have now found a place in modern views of embodied, situated, distributed cognition. As cognitive theory continues to shift from units of analysis defined by inherent properties of the elements to units defined in terms of dynamic patterns of correlation across elements, the study of cognitive ecosystems will become an increasingly important part of cognitive science.
767	embodied	2012	Kemmerer, D; Rudrauf, D; Manzel, K; Tranel, D	Behavioral patterns and lesion sites associated with impaired processing of lexical and conceptual knowledge of actions	CORTEX	To further investigate the neural substrates of lexical and conceptual knowledge of actions, we administered a battery of six tasks to 226 brain-damaged patients with widely distributed lesions in the left and right cerebral hemispheres. The tasks probed lexical and conceptual knowledge of actions in a variety of verbal and non-verbal ways, including naming, word-picture matching, attribute judgments involving both words and pictures, and associative comparisons involving both words and pictures. Of the 226 patients who were studied, 61 failed one or more of the six tasks, with four patients being impaired on the entire battery, and varied numbers of patients being impaired on varied combinations of tasks. Overall, the 61 patients manifested a complex array of associations and dissociations across the six tasks. The lesion sites of 147 of the 226 patients were also investigated, using formal methods for lesion-deficit statistical mapping and power analysis of lesion overlap maps. Significant effects for all six tasks were found in the following left-hemisphere regions: the inferior frontal gyrus; the ventral precentral gyrus, extending superiorly into what are likely to be hand-related primary motor and premotor areas; and the anterior insula. In addition, significant effects for 4-5 tasks were found in not only the regions just mentioned, but also in several other left-hemisphere areas: the ventral postcentral gyrus; the supramarginal gyms; and the posterior middle temporal gyrus. These results converge with previous research on the neural underpinnings of action words and concepts. However, the current study goes considerably beyond most previous investigations by providing extensive behavioral and lesion data for an unusually large and diverse sample of brain-damaged patients, and by incorporating multiple measures of verb comprehension. Regarding theoretical implications, the study provides new support for the Embodied Cognition Framework, which maintains that conceptual knowledge is grounded in sensorimotor systems. (C) 2010 Elsevier Srl. All rights reserved.
768	embodied	2010	Casasanto, D; Dijkstra, K	Motor action and emotional memory	COGNITION	Can simple motor actions affect how efficiently people retrieve emotional memories, and influence what they choose to remember? In Experiment 1, participants were prompted to retell autobiographical memories with either positive or negative valence, while moving marbles either upward or downward. They retrieved memories faster when the direction of movement was congruent with the valence of the memory (upward for positive, downward for negative memories). Given neutral-valence prompts in Experiment 2, participants retrieved more positive memories when instructed to move marbles up, and more negative memories when instructed to move them down, demonstrating a causal link from motion to emotion. Results suggest that positive and negative life experiences are implicitly associated with schematic representations of upward and downward motion, consistent with theories of metaphorical mental representation. Beyond influencing the efficiency of memory retrieval, the direction of irrelevant, repetitive motor actions can also partly determine the emotional content of the memories people retrieve: moving marbles upward (an ostensibly meaningless action) can cause people to think more positive thoughts. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
769	embodied	2009	Lorey, B; Bischoff, M; Pilgramm, S; Stark, R; Munzert, J; Zentgraf, K	The embodied nature of motor imagery: the influence of posture and perspective	EXPERIMENTAL BRAIN RESEARCH	It is assumed that imagining oneself from a first-person perspective (1PP) is more embodied than a third-person perspective (3PP). Therefore, 1PP imagery should lead to more activity in motor and motor-related structures, and the postural configuration of one's own body should be particularly relevant in 1PP simulation. The present study investigated whether proprioceptive information on hand position is integrated similarly in 1PP and 3PP imagery of hand movements. During functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scanning, 20 right-handed female college students watched video sequences of different hand movements with their right hand in a compatible versus incompatible posture and subsequently performed 1PP or 3PP imagery of the movement. Results showed stronger activation in left hemisphere motor and motor-related structures, especially the inferior parietal lobe, on 1PP compared with 3PP trials. Activation in the left inferior parietal lobe (parietal operculum, SII) and the insula was stronger in 1PP trials with compatible compared with incompatible posture. Thus, proprioceptive information on actual body posture is more relevant for 1PP imagery processes. Results support the embodied nature of 1PP imagery and indicate possible applications in athletic training or rehabilitation.
770	embodied	2007	Dijkstra, K; Kaschak, MP; Zwaan, RA	Body posture facilitates retrieval of autobiographical memories	COGNITION	We assessed potential facilitation of congruent body posture on access to and retention of autobiographical memories in younger and older adults. Response times were shorter when body positions during prompted retrieval of autobiographical events were similar to the body positions in the original events than when body position was incongruent. Free recall of the autobiographical events two weeks later was also better for congruent-posture than for incongruent-posture memories. The findings were similar for younger and older adults, except for the finding that free recall was more accurate in younger adults than in older adults in the congruent condition. We discuss these findings in the context of theories of embodied cognition. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
771	embodied	2012	Scheer, M	ARE EMOTIONS A KIND OF PRACTICE (AND IS THAT WHAT MAKES THEM HAVE A HISTORY)? A BOURDIEUIAN APPROACH TO UNDERSTANDING EMOTION	HISTORY AND THEORY	The term "emotional practices" is gaining currency in the historical study of emotions. This essay discusses the theoretical and methodological implications of this concept. A definition of emotion informed by practice theory promises to bridge persistent dichotomies with which historians of emotion grapple, such as body and mind, structure and agency, as well as expression and experience. Practice theory emphasizes the importance of habituation and social context and is thus consistent with, and could enrich, psychological models of situated, distributed, and embodied cognition and their approaches to the study of emotion. It is suggested here that practices not only generate emotions, but that emotions themselves can be viewed as a practical engagement with the world. Conceiving of emotions as practices means understanding them as emerging from bodily dispositions conditioned by a social context, which always has cultural and historical specificity. Emotion-as-practice is bound up with and dependent on "emotional practices," defined here as practices involving the self (as body and mind), language, material artifacts, the environment, and other people. Drawing on Pierre Bourdieu's concept of habitus, the essay emphasizes that the body is not a static, timeless, universal foundation that produces ahistorical emotional arousal, but is itself socially situated, adaptive, trained, plastic, and thus historical. Four kinds of emotional practices that make use of the capacities of a body trained by specific social settings and power relations are sketched out-mobilizing, naming, communicating, and regulating emotion-as are consequences for method in historical research.
772	embodied	2008	van Dantzig, S; Pecher, D; Zeelenberg, R; Barsalou, LW	Perceptual processing affects conceptual processing	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	According to the Perceptual Symbols Theory of cognition (Barsalou, 1999), modality-specific simulations underlie the representation of concepts. A strong prediction of this view is that perceptual processing affects conceptual processing. In this study, participants performed a perceptual detection task and a conceptual property-verification task in alternation. Responses on the property-verification task were slower for those trials that were preceded by a perceptual trial in a different modality than for those that were preceded by a perceptual trial in the same modality. This finding of a modality-switch effect across perceptual processing and conceptual processing supports the hypothesis that perceptual and conceptual representations are partially based on the same systems.
773	embodied	2012	Bargh, JA; Shalev, I	The Substitutability of Physical and Social Warmth in Daily Life	EMOTION	Classic and contemporary research on person perception has demonstrated the paramount importance of interpersonal warmth. Recent research on embodied cognition has shown that feelings of social warmth or coldness can be induced by experiences of physical warmth or coldness, and vice versa. Here we show that people tend to self-regulate their feelings of social warmth through applications of physical warmth, apparently without explicit awareness of doing so. In Study 1, higher scores on a measure of chronic loneliness (social coldness) were associated with an increased tendency to take warm baths or showers. In Study 2, a physical coldness manipulation significantly increased feelings of loneliness. In Study 3, needs for social affiliation and for emotion regulation, triggered by recall of a past rejection experience, were subsequently eliminated by an interpolated physical warmth experience. Study 4 provided evidence that people are not explicitly aware of the relationship between physical and social warmth (coldness), as they do not consider a target person who often bathes to be any lonelier than one who does not, with all else being equal. Together, these findings suggest that physical and social warmth are to some extent substitutable in daily life and that this substitution reflects an unconscious self-regulatory mechanism.
774	embodied	2010	Domahs, F; Moeller, K; Huber, S; Willmes, K; Nuerk, HC	Embodied numerosity: Implicit hand-based representations influence symbolic number processing across cultures	COGNITION	In recent years, a strong functional relationship between finger counting and number processing has been suggested. Developmental studies have shown specific effects of the structure of the individual finger counting system on arithmetic abilities. Moreover, the orientation of the mental quantity representation ("number line") seems to be influenced by finger counting habits. However, it is unclear whether the structure of finger counting systems still influences symbolic number processing in educated adults. In the present transcultural study, we pursued this question by examining finger-based sub-base-five effects in an Arabic number comparison task with three different groups of participants (German deaf signers, German and Chinese hearing adults). We observed sub-base-five effects in all groups, but particularly so for both German groups who use an explicit sub-base-five system in their finger counting habits. It is concluded that bodily experiences - namely finger counting - influence the structure of the abstract mental number representations even in adults. Thus, the present findings support the general idea that even seemingly abstract cognition may at least partially be rooted in our bodily experiences. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
775	embodied	2008	Williams, JHG	Self-Other Relations in Social Development and Autism: Multiple Roles for Mirror Neurons and Other Brain Bases	AUTISM RESEARCH	Mirror neuron system dysfunction may underlie a self-other matching impairment, which has previously been suggested to account for autism. Embodied Cognition Theory, which proposes that action provides a foundation for cognition has tent further credence to these ideas. The hypotheses of a self-other matching deficit and impaired mirror neuron function in autism have now been well supported by studies employing a range of methodologies. However, underlying mechanisms require further exploration to explain how mirror neurons may be involved in attentional and mentalizing processes. Impairments in self-other matching and mirror neuron function are not necessarily inextricably linked and it seems possible that different sub-populations of mirror neurons, located in several regions, contribute differentially to social cognitive functions. It is hypothesized that mirror neuron coding for action-direction may be required for developing attentional sensitivity to self-directed actions, and consequently for person-oriented, stimulus-driven attention. Mirror neuron networks may vary for different types of social learning such as "automatic" imitation and imitation learning. Imitation learning may be more reliant on self-other comparison processes (based on mirror neurons) that identify differences as well as similarities between actions. Differential connectivity with the amygdala-orbitofrontal system may also be important. This could have implications for developing "theory of mind," with intentional self-other comparison being relevant to meta-representational abilities, and "automatic" imitation being more relevant to empathy. While it seems clear that autism is associated with impaired development of embodied aspects of cognition, the ways that mirror neurons contribute to these brain-behavior links are likely to be complex.
776	embodied	2007	Landy, D; Goldstone, RL	How abstract is symbolic thought?	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	In 4 experiments, the authors explored the role of visual layout in rule-based syntactic judgments. Participants judged the validity of a set of algebraic equations that tested their ability to apply the order of operations. In each experiment, a nonmathematical grouping pressure was manipulated to support or interfere with the mathematical convention. Despite the formal irrelevance of these grouping manipulations, accuracy in all experiments was highest when the nonmathematical pressure supported the mathematical grouping. The increase was significantly greater when the correct judgment depended on the order of operator precedence. The result that visual perception impacts rule application in mathematics has broad implications for relational reasoning in general. The authors conclude that formally symbolic reasoning is more visual than is usually proposed.
777	embodied	2006	Amorim, MA; Isableu, B; Jarraya, M	Embodied spatial transformations: "Body analogy" for the mental rotation of objects	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	The cognitive advantage of imagined spatial transformations of the human body over that of more unfamiliar objects (e.g., Shepard-Metzler [S-M] cubes) is an issue for validating motor theories of visual perception. In 6 experiments, the authors show that providing S-M cubes with body characteristics (e.g., by adding a head to S-M cubes to evoke a posture) facilitates the mapping of the cognitive coordinate system of one's body onto the abstract shape. In turn, this spatial embodiment improves object shape matching. Thanks to the increased cohesiveness of human posture in people's body schema, imagined transformations of the body operate in a less piecemeal fashion as compared with objects (S-M cubes or swing-arm desk lamps) under a similar spatial configuration, provided that the pose can be embodied. If the pose cannot be emulated (covert imitation) by the sensorimotor system, the facilitation due to motoric embodiment will also be disrupted.
778	embodied	2010	Louwerse, MM; Jeuniaux, P	The linguistic and embodied nature of conceptual processing	COGNITION	Recent theories of cognition have argued that embodied experience is important for conceptual processing. Embodiment can be contrasted with linguistic factors such as the typical order in which words appear in language. Here, we report four experiments that investigated the conditions under which embodiment and linguistic factors determine performance. Participants made speeded judgments about whether pairs of words or pictures were semantically related or had an iconic relationship. The embodiment factor was operationalized as the degree to which stimulus pairs were presented in the spatial configurations in which they usually occur (i.e., an iconic configuration, e.g., attic presented above basement). The linguistic factor was operationalized as the frequency of the stimulus pairs in language. The embodiment factor predicted error rates and response time better for pictures, whereas the linguistic factor predicted error rates and response time better for words. These findings were modified by task, with the embodiment factor being strongest in iconicity judgments for pictures and the linguistic factor being strongest in semantic judgments for words. Both factors predicted error rates and response time for both semantic and iconicity judgments. These findings support the view that conceptual processing is both linguistic and embodied, with a bias for the embodiment or the linguistic factor depending on the nature of the task and the stimuli. Published by Elsevier B.V.
779	embodied	2005	Yu, C; Ballard, DH; Aslin, RN	The role of embodied intention in early lexical acquisition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We examine the influence of inferring interlocutors' referential intentions from their body movements at the early stage of lexical acquisition. By testing human participants and comparing their performances in different learning conditions, we find that those embodied intentions facilitate both word discovery and word-meaning association. In light of empirical findings, the main part of this article presents a computational model that can identify the sound patterns of individual words from continuous speech, using nonlinguistic contextual information, and employ body movements as deictic references to discover word-meaning associations. To our knowledge, this work is the first model of word learning that not only learns lexical items from raw multisensory signals to closely resemble infant language development from natural environments, but also explores the computational role of social cognitive skills in lexical acquisition.
780	embodied	2007	Fonagy, P; Target, M	The rooting of the mind in the body: New links between attachment theory and psychoanalytic thought	JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN PSYCHOANALYTIC ASSOCIATION	The relationship between psychoanalysis and attachment theory is complex indeed. A brief review of the psychoanalytic literature as it concerns attachment theory and research, and of the attachment literature as it pertains to psychoanalytic ideas, demonstrates an increasing interest in attachment theory within psychoanalysis. Some of the difficulties that attachment theory faces in relation to psychoanalytic ideas are traced to its links to the now dated cognitive science of the 1960s and 1970s. Today, however, a second-generation cognitive neuroscience seeks neurobiologically plausible accounts in which links with brain and body are seen as shaping mind and consciousness, which increasingly are seen as "embodied," as emerging from or serving the needs of a physical being located in a specific time, place, and social context. This idea has also been at the core of much psychoanalytic thinking, which has historically affirmed the rootedness of symbolic thought in sensory, emotional, and enacted experience with objects. Now neurobiological advances supporting the concept of embodied cognition offer an opportunity to forge powerful links between the hitherto separate domains of attachment theory and psychoanalysis. Speculations about the nature of language are presented that emphasize the origin of internal working models (and of representations in general) in early sensorimotor and emotional experiences with a caregiver. It is argued that language and symbolic thought may be phylogenetically and ontogenetically embodied, built on a foundation of gestures and actions, and are thus profoundly influenced by the experience of early physical interaction with the primary object. Finally, the clinical and research implications of these ideas are discussed.
781	embodied	2012	Bargh, JA; Schwader, KL; Hailey, SE; Dyer, RL; Boothby, EJ	Automaticity in social-cognitive processes	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Over the past several years, the concept of automaticity of higher cognitive processes has permeated nearly all domains of psychological research. In this review, we highlight insights arising from studies in decision-making, moral judgments, close relationships, emotional processes, face perception and social judgment, motivation and goal pursuit, conformity and behavioral contagion, embodied cognition, and the emergence of higher-level automatic processes in early childhood. Taken together, recent work in these domains demonstrates that automaticity does not result exclusively from a process of skill acquisition (in which a process always begins as a conscious and deliberate one, becoming capable of automatic operation only with frequent use) there are evolved substrates and early childhood learning mechanisms involved as well.
782	embodied	2007	Barrett, L; Henzi, P; Rendall, D	Social brains, simple minds: does social complexity really require cognitive complexity?	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The social brain hypothesis is a well-accepted and well-supported evolutionary theory of enlarged brain size in the non-human primates. Nevertheless, it tends to emphasize an anthropocentric view of social life and cognition. This often leads to confusion between ultimate and proximate mechanisms, and an over-reliance on a Cartesian, narratively structured view of the mind and social life, which in turn lead to views of social complexity that are congenial to our views of ourselves, rather than necessarily representative of primate social worlds. In this paper, we argue for greater attention to embodied and distributed theories of cognition, which get us away from current fixations on 'theory of mind' and other high-level anthropocentric constructions, and allow for the generation of testable hypotheses that combine neurobiology, psychology and behaviour in a mutually reinforcing manner.
783	embodied	2006	Cangelosi, A; Riga, T	An embodied model for sensorimotor grounding and grounding transfer: Experiments with epigenetic robots	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The grounding of symbols in computational models of linguistic abilities is one of the fundamental properties of psychologically plausible cognitive models. In this article, we present an embodied model for the grounding of language in action based on epigenetic robots. Epigenetic robotics is one of the new cognitive modeling approaches to modeling autonomous mental development. The robot model is based on an integrative vision of language in which linguistic abilities are strictly dependent on and grounded in other behaviors and skills. It uses simulated robots that learn through imitation the names of basic actions. Robots also learn higher order action concepts through the process of grounding transfer. The simulation demonstrates how new, higher order behavioral abilities can be autonomously built on previously grounded basic action categories following linguistic interaction with human users.
784	embodied	2010	Goldin-Meadow, S; Beilock, SL	Action's Influence on Thought: The Case of Gesture	PERSPECTIVES ON PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Recent research has shown that people's actions can influence how they think. A separate body of research has shown that the gestures people produce when they speak can also influence how they think. In this article, we bring these two literatures together to explore whether gesture has an effect on thinking by virtue of its ability to reflect real-world actions. We first argue that gestures contain detailed perceptual-motor information about the actions they represent, information often not found in the speech that accompanies the gestures. We then show that the action features in gesture do not just reflect the gesturer's thinking-they can feed back and alter that thinking. Gesture actively brings action into a speaker's mental representations, and those mental representations then affect behavior-at times more powerfully than do the actions on which the gestures are based. Gesture thus has the potential to serve as a unique bridge between action and abstract thought.
785	embodied	2008	Taylor, LJ; Zwaan, RA	Motor resonance and linguistic focus	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Previous studies have demonstrated that verbal descriptions of actions activate compatible motor responses (Glenberg & Kaschak, 2002; Zwaan & Taylor, 2006). The present study replicates previous findings showing that, within a sentence, such activation is localized on the verb that denotes the action. Moreover, motor resonance is found to yield to linguistic focus. If a postverbal adverb maintains focus on a matching action ("slowly" or "quickly"), motor resonance occurs, but if the adverb shifts the focus to the agent (e.g., "obediently" or "eagerly"), a cessation of motor resonance ensues. These findings are discussed within the context of theories of motor resonance, action understanding, mental simulation, and linguistic focus.
786	embodied	2005	Barrett, L; Henzi, P	The social nature of primate cognition	PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	The hypothesis that the enlarged brain size of the primates was selected for by social, rather than purely ecological, factors has been strongly influential in studies of primate cognition and behaviour over the past two decades. However, the Machiavellian intelligence hypothesis, also known as the social brain hypothesis, tends to emphasize certain traits and behaviours, like exploitation and deception, at the expense of others, such as tolerance and behavioural coordination, and therefore presents only one view of how social life may shape cognition. This review outlines work from other relevant disciplines, including evolutionary economics, cognitive science and neurophysiology, to illustrate how these can be used to build a more general theoretical framework, incorporating notions of embodied and distributed cognition, in which to situate questions concerning the evolution of primate social cognition.
787	embodied	2010	Toiviainen, P; Luck, G; Thompson, MR	EMBODIED METER: HIERARCHICAL EIGENMODES IN MUSIC-INDUCED MOVEMENT	MUSIC PERCEPTION	LISTENING TO MUSIC OFTEN IS ASSOCIATED WITH SPONTANEOUS body movements frequently synchronized with its periodic structure. The notion of embodied cognition assumes that intelligent behavior does not emerge from mere passive perception, but requires goal-directed interactions between the organism and its environment. According to this view, one could postulate that we may use our bodily movements to help parse the metric structure of music. The aim of this study was to investigate how pulsations on different metrical levels manifest in music-induced movement. Musicians were presented with a piece of instrumental music in 4/4 time, played at four different tempi ranging from 92 to 138 bpm. Participants were instructed to move to the music, and their movements were recorded with a high quality optical motion capture system. Subsequently, signal processing methods and principal components analysis were applied to extract movement primitives synchronized with different metrical levels. We found differences between metric levels in terms of the prevalence of synchronized eigenmovements. For instance, mediolateral movements of arms were found to be frequently synchronized with the tactus level pulse, while rotation and lateral flexion of the upper torso were commonly found to exhibit periods of two and four beats, respectively. The results imply that periodicities on several metric levels are simultaneously present in music-induced movement. This could suggest that the metric structure of music is encoded in these movements.
788	embodied	2012	Koziol, LF; Budding, DE; Chidekel, D	From Movement to Thought: Executive Function, Embodied Cognition, and the Cerebellum	CEREBELLUM	This paper posits that the brain evolved for the control of action rather than for the development of cognition per se. We note that the terms commonly used to describe brain-behavior relationships define, and in many ways limit, how we conceptualize and investigate them and may therefore constrain the questions we ask and the utility of the "answers" we generate. Many constructs are so nonspecific and over-inclusive as to be scientifically meaningless. "Executive function" is one such term in common usage. As the construct is increasingly focal in neuroscience research, defining it clearly is critical. We propose a definition that places executive function within a model of continuous sensorimotor interaction with the environment. We posit that control of behavior is the essence of "executive function," and we explore the evolutionary advantage conferred by being able to anticipate and control behavior with both implicit and explicit mechanisms. We focus on the cerebellum's critical role in these control processes. We then hypothesize about the ways in which procedural (skill) learning contributes to the acquisition of declarative (semantic) knowledge. We hypothesize how these systems might interact in the process of grounding knowledge in sensorimotor anticipation, thereby directly linking movement to thought and "embodied cognition." We close with a discussion of ways in which the cerebellum instructs frontal systems how to think ahead by providing anticipatory control mechanisms, and we briefly review this model's potential applications.
789	embodied	2011	Chu, MY; Kita, S	The Nature of Gestures' Beneficial Role in Spatial Problem Solving	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Co-thought gestures are hand movements produced in silent, noncommunicative, problem-solving situations. In the study, we investigated whether and how such gestures enhance performance in spatial visualization tasks such as a mental rotation task and a paper folding task. We found that participants gestured more often when they had difficulties solving mental rotation problems (Experiment 1). The gesture-encouraged group solved more mental rotation problems correctly than did the gesture-allowed and gesture-prohibited groups (Experiment 2). Gestures produced by the gesture-encouraged group enhanced performance in the very trials in which they were produced (Experiments 2 & 3). Furthermore, gesture frequency decreased as the participants in the gesture-encouraged group solved more problems (Experiments 2 & 3). In addition, the advantage of the gesture-encouraged group persisted into subsequent spatial visualization problems in which gesturing was prohibited: another mental rotation block (Experiment 2) and a newly introduced paper folding task (Experiment 3). The results indicate that when people have difficulty in solving spatial visualization problems, they spontaneously produce gestures to help them, and gestures can indeed improve performance. As they solve more problems, the spatial computation supported by gestures becomes internalized, and the gesture frequency decreases. The benefit of gestures persists even in subsequent spatial visualization problems in which gesture is prohibited. Moreover, the beneficial effect of gesturing can be generalized to a different spatial visualization task when two tasks require similar spatial transformation processes. We concluded that gestures enhance performance on spatial visualization tasks by improving the internal computation of spatial transformations.
790	embodied	2005	Kreuzbauer, R; Malter, AJ	Embodied cognition and new product design: Changing product form to influence brand categorization	JOURNAL OF PRODUCT INNOVATION MANAGEMENT	This article explains how embodied cognition and perceptual symbol systems enable product designers to influence consumers by communicating key perceptual features through subtle changes in product design elements. In this way, managers can change perceptual design elements to support line extension strategies. More specifically, design changes can be used as a tool to help evolve consumer perceptions of a product's uses and brand category membership. The role of perceptual symbols in product design is illustrated by a well-known off-road motorbike brand that planned to extend into the street motorbike segment. In order to facilitate consumer acceptance of a street motorbike from this off-road brand, the firm gradually introduced models containing an increasing number of elements of street motorbikes over a period of several years. The authors use this example to show how typical design elements of the target product category can be effectively integrated with design elements of the current product category by simply modifying key characteristics of product-shape attributes. This process is further tested in an experiment, where motorbike models differing slightly in key product features (e.g., product shape) were rated on their resemblance to street or off-road motorbikes. The results show a strong effect of these design changes on brand-category membership. Managerial implications of this approach and future research directions are discussed.
791	embodied	2012	Yu, C; Smith, LB	Embodied attention and word learning by toddlers	COGNITION	Many theories of early word learning begin with the uncertainty inherent to learning a word from its co-occurrence with a visual scene. However, the relevant visual scene for infant word learning is neither from the adult theorist's view nor the mature partner's view, but is rather from the learner's personal view. Here we show that when 18-month old infants interacted with objects in play with their parents, they created moments in which a single object was visually dominant. If parents named the object during these moments of bottom-up selectivity, later forced-choice tests showed that infants learned the name, but did not when naming occurred during a less visually selective moment. The momentary visual input for parents and toddlers was captured via head cameras placed low on each participant's forehead as parents played with and named objects for their infant. Frame-by-frame analyses of the head camera images at and around naming moments were conducted to determine the visual properties at input that were associated with learning. The analyses indicated that learning occurred when bottom-up visual information was clean and uncluttered. The sensory-motor behaviors of infants and parents were also analyzed to determine how their actions on the objects may have created these optimal visual moments for learning. The results are discussed with respect to early word learning, embodied attention, and the social role of parents in early word learning. (c) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
792	embodied	2012	Blasing, B; Calvo-Merino, B; Cross, ES; Jola, C; Honisch, J; Stevens, CJ	Neurocognitive control in dance perception and performance	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	Dance is a rich source of material for researchers interested in the integration of movement and cognition. The multiple aspects of embodied cognition involved in performing and perceiving dance have inspired scientists to use dance as a means for studying motor control, expertise, and action-perception links. The aim of this review is to present basic research on cognitive and neural processes implicated in the execution, expression, and observation of dance, and to bring into relief contemporary issues and open research questions. The review addresses six topics: 1) dancers' exemplary motor control, in terms of postural control, equilibrium maintenance, and stabilization; 2) how dancers' timing and on-line synchronization are influenced by attention demands and motor experience; 3) the critical roles played by sequence learning and memory; 4) how dancers make strategic use of visual and motor imagery; 5) the insights into the neural coupling between action and perception yielded through exploration of the brain architecture mediating dance observation; and 6) a neuroesthetics perspective that sheds new light on the way audiences perceive and evaluate dance expression. Current and emerging issues are presented regarding future directions that will facilitate the ongoing dialog between science and dance. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
793	embodied	2010	Ebert, JP; Wegner, DM	Time warp: Authorship shapes the perceived timing of actions and events	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	It has been proposed that inferring personal authorship for an event gives rise to intentional binding, a perceptual illusion in which one's action and inferred effect seem closer in time than they Otherwise Would (Haggard, Clark, & Kalogeras, 2002). Using a novel, naturalistic paradigm. we conducted two experiments to test this hypothesis and examine the relationship between binding and self-reported authorship In both experiments, an important authorship indicator - consistency between one's action and a subsequent event - was manipulated, and its effects on binding and self-reported authorship were measured Results showed that action-event consistency enhanced both binding and self-reported authorship, supporting the hypothesis that binding arises from an inference of authorship At the same time, evidence for a dissociation emerged. with consistency having a more robust effect on self-reports than on binding Taken together. these results suggest that binding and self-reports reveal different aspects of the sense Of authorship (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc All rights reserved
794	embodied	2010	Eitan, Z; Timmers, R	Beethoven's last piano sonata and those who follow crocodiles: Cross-domain mappings of auditory pitch in a musical context	COGNITION	Though auditory pitch is customarily mapped in Western cultures onto spatial verticality (high-low), both anthropological reports and cognitive studies suggest that pitch may be mapped onto a wide variety of other domains. We collected a total number of 35 pitch mappings and investigated in four experiments how these mappings are used and structured. In particular, we inquired (1) how Western subjects apply Western and non-Western metaphors to "high" and "low" pitches, (2) whether mappings applied in an abstract conceptual task are similarly applied by listeners to actual music, (3) how mappings of spatial height relate to these pitch mappings, and (4) how mappings of "high" and "low" pitch associate with other dimensions, in particular quantity, size, intensity and valence. The results show strong agreement among Western participants in applying familiar and unfamiliar metaphors for pitch, in both an abstract, conceptual task (Exp. 1) and in a music listening task (Exp. 2), indicating that diverse cross-domain mappings for pitch exist latently besides the common verticality metaphor. Furthermore. limited overlap between mappings of spatial height and pitch height was found, suggesting that, the Ubiquity of the verticality metaphor in Western usage notwithstanding, cross-domain pitch mappings are largely independent of that metaphor, and seem to be based upon other underlying dimensions. Part of the discrepancy between spatial height and pitch height is that, for pitch, "up" is not necessarily "more," nor is it necessarily "good." High pitch is only "more" for height, intensity and brightness. It is "less" for mass, size and quantity. We discuss implications of these findings for music and speech prosody, and their relevance to notions of embodied cognition and of cross-domain magnitude representation. (c) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
795	embodied	2013	Friston, KJ; Schwartenbeck, P; FitzGerald, T; Moutoussis, M; Behrens, T; Dolan, RJ	The anatomy of choice: active inference and agency	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	This paper considers agency in the setting of embodied or active inference. In brief, we associate a sense of agency with prior beliefs about action and ask what sorts of beliefs underlie optimal behavior. In particular, we consider prior beliefs that action minimizes the KullbackLeibler (KL) divergence between desired states and attainable states in the future. This allows one to formulate bounded rationality as approximate Bayesian inference that optimizes a free energy bound on model evidence. We show that constructs like expected utility, exploration bonuses, softmax choice rules and optimism bias emerge as natural consequences of this formulation. Previous accounts of active inference have focused on predictive coding and Bayesian filtering schemes for minimizing free energy. Here, we consider variational Bayes as an alternative scheme that provides formal constraints on the computational anatomy of inference and actionconstraints that are remarkably consistent with neuroanatomy. Furthermore, this scheme contextualizes optimal decision theory and economic (utilitarian) formulations as pure inference problems. For example, expected utility theory emerges as a special case of free energy minimization, where the sensitivity or inverse temperature (of softmax functions and quantal response equilibria) has a unique and Bayes-optimal solutionthat minimizes free energy. This sensitivity corresponds to the precision of beliefs about behavior, such that attainable goals are afforded a higher precision or confidence. In turn, this means that optimal behavior entails a representation of confidence about outcomes that are under an agent's control.
796	embodied	2012	Fischer, MH	A hierarchical view of grounded, embodied, and situated numerical cognition	COGNITIVE PROCESSING	There is much recent interest in the idea that we represent our knowledge together with the sensory and motor features that were activated during its acquisition. This paper reviews the evidence for such "embodiment" in the domain of numerical cognition, a traditional stronghold of abstract theories of knowledge representation. The focus is on spatial-numerical associations, such as the SNARC effect (small numbers are associated with left space, larger numbers with right space). Using empirical evidence from behavioral research, I first describe sensory and motor biases induced by SNARC, thus identifying numbers as embodied concepts. Next, I propose a hierarchical relationship between grounded, embodied, and situated aspects of number knowledge. This hierarchical conceptualization helps to understand the variety of SNARC-related findings and yields testable predictions about numerical cognition. I report several such tests, ranging from cross-cultural comparisons of horizontal and vertical SNARC effects (Shaki and Fischer in J Exp Psychol Hum Percept Perform 38(3): 804-809, 2012) to motor cortical activation studies in adults with left- and right-hand counting preferences (Tschentscher et al. in NeuroImage 59: 3139-3148, 2012). It is concluded that the diagnostic features for each level of the proposed hierarchical knowledge representation, together with the spatial associations of numbers, make the domain of numerical knowledge an ideal testing ground for embodied cognition research.
797	embodied	2011	Louwerse, MM	Symbol Interdependency in Symbolic and Embodied Cognition	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Whether computational algorithms such as latent semantic analysis (LSA) can both extract meaning from language and advance theories of human cognition has become a topic of debate in cognitive science, whereby accounts of symbolic cognition and embodied cognition are often contrasted. Albeit for different reasons, in both accounts the importance of statistical regularities in linguistic surface structure tends to be underestimated. The current article gives an overview of the symbolic and embodied cognition accounts and shows how meaning induction attributed to a specific statistical process or to activation of embodied representations should be attributed to language itself. Specifically, the performance of LSA can be attributed to the linguistic surface structure, more than special characteristics of the algorithm, and embodiment findings attributed to perceptual simulations can be explained by distributional linguistic information.
798	embodied	2008	Andres, M; Olivier, E; Badets, A	Actions, Words, and Numbers: A Motor Contribution to Semantic Processing?	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Recent findings in neuroscience challenge the view that the motor system is exclusively dedicated to the control of actions, and it has been suggested that it may contribute critically to conceptual processes such as those involved in language and number representation. The aim of this review is to address this issue by illustrating some interactions between the motor system and the processing of words and numbers. First, we detail functional brain imaging studies suggesting that motor circuits may be recruited to represent the meaning of action-related words. Second, we summarize a series of experiments demonstrating some interference between the size of grip used to grasp objects and the magnitude processing of words or numbers. Third, we report data suggestive of a common representation of numbers and finger movements in the adult brain, a possible trace of the finger-counting strategies used in childhood. Altogether, these studies indicate that the motor system interacts with several aspects of word and number representations. Future research should determine whether these findings reflect a causal role of the motor system in the organization of semantic knowledge.
799	embodied	2008	Tomasino, B; Fink, GR; Sparing, R; Dafotakis, M; Weiss, PH	Action verbs and the primary motor cortex: A comparative TMS study of silent reading, frequency judgments, and motor imagery	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Single pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was applied to the hand area of the left primary motor cortex or, as a control, to the vertex (STIMULATION: TMS(M1) vs. TMS(vertex)) while right-handed volunteers silently read verbs related to hand actions. We examined three different tasks and time points for stimulation within the same experiment: subjects indicated with their left foot when they (i) had finished reading, (ii) had judged whether the corresponding movement involved a hand rotation after simulating the hand movement, and (iii) had judged whether they would frequently encounter the action verb in a newspaper (TASK: silent reading, motor imagery, and frequency judgment). Response times were compared between TMS(M1) and TMS(vertex) both applied at different time points after stimulus onset (DELAY: 150, 300, 450, 600, and 750 ms). TMS(M1) differentially modulated task performance: there was a significant facilitatory effect of TMS(M1) for the imagery task only (about 88 ms), with subjects responding about 10% faster (compared to TMS(vertex)). In contrast, response times for silent reading and frequency judgments were unaffected by TMS(M1). No differential effect of the time point of TMS(M1) was observed. The differential effect of TMS(M1) when subjects performed a motor imagery task (relative to performing silent reading or frequency judgments with the same set of verbs) suggests that the primary motor cortex is critically involved in processing action verbs only when subjects are simulating the corresponding movement. This task-dependent effect of hand motor cortex TMS on the processing of hand-related action verbs is discussed with respect to the notion of embodied cognition and the associationist theory. (c) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
800	embodied	2011	Risen, JL; Critcher, CR	Visceral Fit: While in a Visceral State, Associated States of the World Seem More Likely	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	We propose that visceral states can influence beliefs through "visceral fit": People will judge states of the world associated with their current visceral experience as more likely. We found that warmth influenced belief in global warming (Studies 1-3) and that thirst impacted forecasts of drought and desertification (Study 5). These effects emerged in a naturalistic setting (Study 1) and in experimental lab settings (Studies 2, 3, and 5). Studies 2-6 distinguished between 3 mechanistic accounts: temperature as information (Studies 2 and 3), conceptual accessibility (Studies 4 and 5), and fluency of simulation (Studies 6a and 6b). Studies 2 and 3 ruled out the temperature as information account. Feeling warm enhanced belief in global warming even when temperature was manipulated in an uninformative indoor setting, when participants' attention was first directed to the indoor temperature, and when participants' belief about the current outdoor temperature was statistically controlled. Studies 4 and 5 ruled out conceptual accessibility as the key mediator: Priming the corresponding concepts did not produce analogous effects on judgment. Studies 6a and 6b used a causal chain design and found support for a "simulational fluency" account. Participants experiencing the visceral state of warmth constructed more fluent mental representations of hot (vs. cold) outdoor images, and those who were led to construe the same hot outdoor images more fluently believed more in global warming. Together, the results suggest that visceral states can influence one's beliefs by making matching states of the world easier to simulate and therefore seem more likely.
801	enactive	2003	Klin, A; Jones, W; Schultz, R; Volkmar, F	The enactive mind, or from actions to cognition: lessons from autism	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON SERIES B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Normative-IQ individuals with autism are capable of solving explicit social cognitive problems at a level that is not matched by their ability to meet the demands of everyday social situations. The magnitude of this discrepancy is now being documented through newer techniques such as eye tracking, which allows us to see and measure how individuals with autism search for meaning when presented with naturalistic social scenes. This paper offers an approach to social cognitive development intended to address the above discrepancy, which is considered a key element for any understanding of the pathophysiology of autism. This approach, called the enactive mind (EM), originates from the emerging work on 'embodied cognitive science', a neuroscience framework that views cognition as bodily experiences accrued as a result of an organism's adaptive actions upon salient aspects of the surrounding environment. The EM approach offers a developmental hypothesis of autism in which the process of acquisition of embodied social cognition is derailed early on, as a result of reduced salience of social stimuli and concomitant enactment of socially irrelevant aspects of the environment.
802	enactive	2007	Vernon, D; Metta, G; Sandini, G	A survey of artificial cognitive systems: Implications for the autonomous development of mental capabilities in computational agents	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION	This survey presents an overview of the autonomous development of mental capabilities in computational agents. It does so based on a characterization of cognitive systems as systems which exhibit adaptive, anticipatory, and purposive goal-directed behavior. We present a broad survey of the various paradigms of cognition, addressing cognitivist (physical symbol systems) approaches, emergent systems approaches, encompassing connectionist, dynamical, and enactive systems, and also efforts to combine the two in hybrid systems. We then review several cognitive architectures drawn from these paradigms. In each of these areas, we highlight the implications and attendant problems of adopting a developmental approach, both from phylogenetic and ontogenetic points of view. We conclude with a summary of the key architectural features that systems capable of autonomous development of mental capabilities should exhibit.
803	enactive	2009	Fuchs, T; De Jaegher, H	Enactive intersubjectivity: Participatory sense-making and mutual incorporation	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Current theories of social cognition are mainly based on a representationalist view. Moreover, they focus on a rather sophisticated and limited aspect of understanding others, i.e. on how we predict and explain others' behaviours through representing their mental states. Research into the 'social brain' has also favoured a third-person paradigm of social cognition as a passive observation of others' behaviour, attributing it to an inferential, simulative or projective process in the individual brain. In this paper, we present a concept of social understanding as an ongoing, dynamical process of participatory sense-making and mutual incorporation. This process may be described (1) from a dynamical agentive systems point of view as an interaction and coordination of two embodied agents; (2) from a phenomenological approach as a mutual incorporation, i.e. a process in which the lived bodies of both participants extend and form a common intercorporality. Intersubjectivity, it is argued, is not a solitary task of deciphering or simulating the movements of others but means entering a process of embodied interaction and generating common meaning through it. This approach will be further illustrated by an analysis of primary dyadic interaction in early childhood.
804	enactive	2006	Adolphs, R	How do we know the minds of others? Domain-specificity, simulation, and enactive social cognition	BRAIN RESEARCH	In what ways, and to what extent, is social cognition distinguished from cognition in general? And how do data from cognitive neuroscience speak to this question? I review recent findings that argue social cognition may indeed be specialized, and at multiple levels. One particularly interesting respect in which social cognition differs from the rest of cognition is in its close interaction with the social environment. We actively probe other people in order to make inferences about what is going on in their minds (e.g., by asking them questions, and directing our gaze onto them), and we use the minds of other people as a collective resource. Experiments from our own laboratory point to the amygdala as one structure that is critically involved in such processes. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
805	enactive	2009	Di Paolo, E	Extended Life	TOPOI-AN INTERNATIONAL REVIEW OF PHILOSOPHY	This paper reformulates some of the questions raised by extended mind theorists from an enactive, life/mind continuity perspective. Because of its reliance on concepts such as autopoiesis, the enactive approach has been deemed internalist and thus incompatible with the extended mind hypothesis. This paper answers this criticism by showing (1) that the relation between organism and cogniser is not one of co-extension, (2) that cognition is a relational phenomenon and thereby has no location, and (3) that the individuality of a cogniser is inevitably linked with the question of its autonomy, a question ignored by the extended mind hypothesis but for which the enactive approach proposes a precise, operational, albeit non-functionalist answer. The paper raises a pespective of embedded and intersecting forms of autonomous identity generation, some of which correspond to the canonical cases discussed in the extended mind literature, but on the whole of wider generality. In addressing these issues, this paper proposes unbiased, non-species specific definitions of cognition, agency and mediation, thus filling in gaps in the extended mind debates that have led to paradoxical situations and a problematic over-reliance on intutions about what counts as cognitive.
806	enactive	2009	Thompson, E; Stapleton, M	Making Sense of Sense-Making: Reflections on Enactive and Extended Mind Theories	TOPOI-AN INTERNATIONAL REVIEW OF PHILOSOPHY	This paper explores some of the differences between the enactive approach in cognitive science and the extended mind thesis. We review the key enactive concepts of autonomy and sense-making. We then focus on the following issues: (1) the debate between internalism and externalism about cognitive processes; (2) the relation between cognition and emotion; (3) the status of the body; and (4) the difference between 'incorporation' and mere 'extension' in the body-mind-environment relation.
807	enactive	2013	Engel, AK; Maye, A; Kurthen, M; Konig, P	Where's the action? The pragmatic turn in cognitive science	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	In cognitive science, we are currently witnessing a 'pragmatic turn', away from the traditional representation-centered framework towards a paradigm that focuses on understanding cognition as 'enactive', as skillful activity that involves ongoing interaction with the external world. The key premise of this view is that cognition should not be understood as providing models of the world, but as subserving action and being grounded in sensorimotor coupling. Accordingly, cognitive processes and their underlying neural activity patterns should be studied primarily with respect to their role in action generation. We suggest that such an action-oriented paradigm is not only conceptually viable, but already supported by much experimental evidence. Numerous findings either overtly demonstrate the action-relatedness of cognition or can be re-interpreted in this new framework. We argue that new vistas on the functional relevance and the presumed 'representational' nature of neural processes are likely to emerge from this paradigm.
808	enactive	2011	Froese, T; Di Paolo, EA	The enactive approach Theoretical sketches from cell to society	PRAGMATICS & COGNITION	There is a small but growing community of researchers spanning a spectrum of disciplines which are united in rejecting the still dominant computationalist paradigm in favor of the enactive approach. The framework of this approach is centered on a core set of ideas, such as autonomy, sense-making, emergence, embodiment, and experience. These concepts are finding novel applications in a diverse range of areas. One hot topic has been the establishment of an enactive approach to social interaction. The main purpose of this paper is to serve as an advanced entry point into these recent developments. It accomplishes this task in a twofold manner: (i) it provides a succinct synthesis of the most important core ideas and arguments in the theoretical framework of the enactive approach, and (ii) it uses this synthesis to refine the current enactive approach to social interaction. A new operational definition of social interaction is proposed which not only emphasizes the cognitive agency of the individuals and the irreducibility of the interaction process itself, but also the need for jointly co-regulated action. It is suggested that this revised conception of 'socio-cognitive interaction' may provide the necessary middle ground from which to understand the confluence of biological and cultural values in personal action.
809	enactive	2008	Gallagher, S	Inference or interaction: social cognition without precursors	PHILOSOPHICAL EXPLORATIONS	In this paper I defend interaction theory (IT) as an alternative to both theory theory (TT) and simulation theory (ST). IT opposes the basic suppositions that both TT and ST depend upon. I argue that the various capacities for primary and secondary intersubjectivity found in infancy and early childhood should not be thought of as precursors to later developing capacities for using folk psychology or simulation routines. They are not replaced or displaced by such capacities in adulthood, but rather continue to operate as our ordinary and everyday basis for social cognition. I also argue that enactive perception rather than implicit simulation is the best model for explaining these capacities.
810	enactive	2012	Di Paolo, E; De Jaegher, H	The interactive brain hypothesis	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Enactive approaches foreground the role of interpersonal interaction in explanations of social understanding. This motivates, in combination with a recent interest in neuroscientific studies involving actual interactions, the question of how interactive processes relate to neural mechanisms involved in social understanding. We introduce the Interactive Brain Hypothesis (IBH) in order to help map the spectrum of possible relations between social interaction and neural processes. The hypothesis states that interactive experience and skills play enabling roles in both the development and current function of social brain mechanisms, even in cases where social understanding happens in the absence of immediate interaction. We examine the plausibility of this hypothesis against developmental and neurobiological evidence and contrast it with the widespread assumption that mindreading is crucial to all social cognition. We describe the elements of social interaction that bear most directly on this hypothesis and discuss the empirical possibilities open to social neuroscience. We propose that the link between coordination dynamics and social understanding can be best grasped by studying transitions between states of coordination. These transitions form part of the self-organization of interaction processes that characterize the dynamics of social engagement. The patterns and synergies of this self-organization help explain how individuals understand each other. Various possibilities for role-taking emerge during interaction, determining a spectrum of participation. This view contrasts sharply with the observational stance that has guided research in social neuroscience until recently. We also introduce the concept of readiness to interact to describe the practices and dispositions that are summoned in situations of social significance (even if not interactive). This latter idea links interactive factors to more classical observational scenarios.
811	enactive	2009	Froese, T; Ziemke, T	Enactive artificial intelligence: Investigating the systemic organization of life and mind	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The embodied and situated approach to artificial intelligence (Al) has matured and become a viable alternative to traditional computationalist approaches with respect to the practical goal of building artificial agents, which can behave in a robust and flexible manner under changing real-world conditions. Nevertheless, some concerns have recently been raised with regard to the sufficiency of current embodied Al for advancing our scientific understanding of intentional agency. While from an engineering or computer science perspective this limitation might not be relevant, it is of course highly relevant for Al researchers striving to build accurate models of natural cognition. We argue that the biological foundations of enactive cognitive science can provide the conceptual tools that are needed to diagnose more clearly the shortcomings of current embodied Al. In particular, taking an enactive perspective points to the need for Al to take seriously the organismic roots of autonomous agency and sense-making. We identify two necessary systemic requirements, namely constitutive autonomy and adaptivity, which lead us to introduce two design principles of enactive Al. It is argued that the development of such enactive Al poses a significant challenge to current methodologies. However, it also provides a promising way of eventually overcoming the current limitations of embodied Al, especially in terms of providing fuller models of natural embodied cognition. Finally, some practical implications and examples of the two design principles of enactive Al are also discussed. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
812	enactive	2007	Sandini, G; Metta, G; Vernon, D	The iCub Cognitive Humanoid Robot: An Open-System Research Platform for Enactive Cognition	50 YEARS OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE: ESSAYS DEDICATED TO THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	This paper describes a multi-disciplinary initiative to promote collaborative research in enactive artificial cognitive systems by developing the iCub : a open-systems 53 degree-of-freedom cognitive humanoid robot. At 94 cm tall, the iCub is the same size as a three year-old child. It will be able to crawl on all fours and sit up, its hands will allow dexterous manipulation, and its head and eyes are fully articulated. It has visual, vestibular, auditory, and haptic sensory capabilities. As an open system, the design and documentation of all hardware and software is licensed under the Free Software Foundation GNU licences so that the system can be freely replicated and customized. We begin this paper by outlining the enactive approach to cognition, drawing out the implications for phylogenetic configuration, the necessity for ontogenetic development, and the importance of humanoid embodiment. This is followed by a short discussion of our motivation for adopting an open-systems approach. We proceed to describe the iCub's mechanical and electronic specifications, its software architecture, its cognitive architecture. We conclude by discussing the iCub phylogeny, i.e. the robot's intended innate abilities, and an scenario for ontogenesis based on human neo-natal development.
813	enactive	2009	Ziemke, T; Lowe, R	On the Role of Emotion in Embodied Cognitive Architectures: From Organisms to Robots	COGNITIVE COMPUTATION	The computational modeling of emotion has been an area of growing interest in cognitive robotics research in recent years, but also a source of contention regarding how to conceive of emotion and how to model it. In this paper, emotion is characterized as (a) closely connected to embodied cognition, (b) grounded in homeostatic bodily regulation, and (c) a powerful organizational principle-affective modulation of behavioral and cognitive mechanisms-that is 'useful' in both biological brains and robotic cognitive architectures. We elaborate how emotion theories and models centered on core neurological structures in the mammalian brain, and inspired by embodied, dynamical, and enactive approaches in cognitive science, may impact on computational and robotic modeling. In light of the theoretical discussion, work in progress on the development of an embodied cognitive-affective architecture for robots is presented, incorporating aspects of the theories discussed.
814	enactive	2013	Gallagher, S	The socially extended mind	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	This paper contrasts conservative and liberal interpretations of the extended mind hypothesis. The liberal view, defended here, considers cognition to be socially extensive, in a way that goes beyond the typical examples (involving notebooks and various technologies) rehearsed in the extended mind literature, and in a way that takes cognition to involve enactive processes (e.g., social affordances), rather than functional supervenience relations. The socially extended mind is in some cases constituted not only in social interactions with others, but also in ways that involve institutional structures, norms, and practices. Some of the common objections to the extended mind are considered in relation to this liberal interpretation. Implications for critical social theory are explored. (c) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
815	enactive	2012	Froese, T; Fuchs, T	The extended body: a case study in the neurophenomenology of social interaction	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	There is a growing realization in cognitive science that a theory of embodied intersubjectivity is needed to better account for social cognition. We highlight some challenges that must be addressed by attempts to interpret 'simulation theory' in terms of embodiment, and argue for an alternative approach that integrates phenomenology and dynamical systems theory in a mutually informing manner. Instead of 'simulation' we put forward the concept of the 'extended body', an enactive and phenomenological notion that emphasizes the socially mediated nature of embodiment. To illustrate the explanatory potential of this approach, we replicate an agent-based model of embodied social interaction. An analysis of the model demonstrates that the extended body can be explained in terms of mutual dynamical entanglement: inter-bodily resonance between individuals can give rise to self-sustaining interaction patterns that go beyond the behavioral capacities of isolated individuals by modulating their intra-bodily conditions of behavior generation.
816	enactive	2013	McGann, M; De Jaegher, H; Di Paolo, E	Enaction and Psychology	REVIEW OF GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY	The enactive approach to cognitive science aims to provide an account of the mind that is both naturalistic and nonreductive. Psychological activity is viewed not as occurring within the individual organism but in the engagement between the motivated autonomous agent and their context (including their social context). The approach has been developing within the fields of philosophy, artificial life, and computational biology for the past two decades and is now growing within the domain of psychology more generally. In this short paper we outline the conceptual framework of the enactive approach. Illustrative research questions and methods for investigation are also broached, including some existing examples from theoretical, behavioral, and computational modeling research. It is suggested that an enactive psychology provides the basis for the conceptual framework of the enactive approach.
817	enactive	2012	Timmermans, B; Schilbach, L; Pasquali, A; Cleeremans, A	Higher order thoughts in action: consciousness as an unconscious re-description process	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Metacognition is usually construed as a conscious, intentional process whereby people reflect upon their own mental activity. Here, we instead suggest that metacognition is but an instance of a larger class of representational re-description processes that we assume occur unconsciously and automatically. From this perspective, the brain continuously and unconsciously learns to anticipate the consequences of action or activity on itself, on the world and on other people through three predictive loops: an inner loop, a perception-action loop and a self-other (social cognition) loop, which together form a tangled hierarchy. We ask what kinds of mechanisms may subtend this form of enactive metacognition. We extend previous neural network simulations and compare the model with signal detection theory, highlighting that while the latter approach assumes that both type I (objective) and type II (subjective, metacognition-based) decisions tap into the same signal at different hierarchical levels, our approach is closer to dual-route models in which it is assumed that the re-descriptions made possible by the emergence of meta-representations occur independently and outside of the first-order causal chain. We close by reviewing relevant neurological evidence for the idea that awareness, self-awareness and social cognition involve the same mechanisms.
818	enactive	2010	Malafouris, L	Metaplasticity and the human becoming: principles of neuroarchaeology	JOURNAL OF ANTHROPOLOGICAL SCIENCES	Important recent developments in brain and cognitive sciences offer new avenues for productive cooperation between archaeology and neuroscience. Archaeologists can now learn more about the biological and neural substrates of the human cognitive abilities and use that knowledge to better define and identify their archaeologically visible traces and possible signatures. In addition, important questions and prevailing assumptions about the emergence of modern human cognition can be critically reviewed in the light of recent neuroscientific findings. Thus there is great prospect in the archaeology of mind for developing a systematic cross-disciplinary endeavor to map the common ground between archaeology and neuroscience, frame the new questions, and bridge the diverge analytical levels and scales of time. The term 'neuroarchaeology' is introduced to articulate this rapidly developing field of cross-disciplinary research, focusing on questions and problems that emerge at the interface between brain and culture over the long-term developmental trajectories of human becoming. Neuroarchaeology aims at constructing an analytical bridge between brain and culture by putting material culture, embodiment, time and long term change at center stage in the study of mind. This paper presents a critical overview of this new research field and introduces the notion of 'metaplasticity' to describe the enactive constitutive intertwining between neural and cultural plasticity. In this context, I summarize the main objectives, cross-disciplinary links, and theoretical grounding of this new approach to the archaeology of mind and outline some of the foundational issues and methodological challenges such a project might face.
819	enactive	2008	Vernon, D	Cognitive vision: The case for embodied perception	IMAGE AND VISION COMPUTING	This paper considers arguments for the necessity of embodiment in cognitive vision systems. We begin by delineating the scope of cognitive vision, and follow this by a survey of the various approaches that can be taken to the realization of artificial cognitive vision systems, focussing on cognitive aspects. These range from the cognitivist symbolic representational paradigm, through connectionist systems and self-organizing dynamical systems, to the enactive cognition paradigm. We then consider various arguments for embodiment, beginning with paradigm-specific cases, and concluding with a paradigm-independent argument for embodied perception and cognition. We explore briefly different forms of embodiment and their relevance to the foregoing viewpoints. We highlight some of the key problems associated with embodied cognitive vision, including the phylogeny/ontogeny trade-off in artificial systems and the developmental limitations imposed by real-time environmental coupling. Finally, we conclude by considering some aspects of natural cognitive systems to see how they can provide insights to help in addressing these problems. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
820	enactive	1999	Baerveldt, C; Verheggen, T	Enactivism and the experiential reality of culture: Rethinking the epistemological basis of cultural psychology	CULTURE & PSYCHOLOGY	The key problem of cultural psychology comprises a paradox: while people believe they act on the basis of their own authentic experience, cultural psychologists observe their behavior to be socially patterned. It is argued that, in order to account for those patterns, cultural psychology should take human experience as its analytical starting point. Nevertheless, there is a tendency within cultural psychology to either neglect human experience, by focusing exclusively on discourse, or to consider the structure of this experience to originate in an already produced cultural order. For an alternative approach, we turn to the enactive view of cognition developed by Humberto Maturana and Francisco Varela. Their theory of autonomy can provide the epistemological basis for a cultural psychology that explains how experience can become socially patterned in the first place. Cultural Life forms are then considered as consensually coordinated, embodied practices.
821	enactive	2008	Hirschfeld, RR; Bernerth, JB	Mental Efficacy and Physical Efficacy at the Team Level: Inputs and Outcomes Among Newly Formed Action Teams	JOURNAL OF APPLIED PSYCHOLOGY	The authors demarcated mental efficacy and physical efficacy at the team level, and they explored these 2 factors as outcomes of 4 potential inputs and as predictors of 3 outcomes among 110 newly formed action teams in a military setting. Both types of team efficacy benefited front greater learn size and an initial experience of enactive mastery, but they were not influenced by teams' female representation or knowledge pool. In terms of predictive contributions, both mental and physical efficacy facilitated internal social cohesion. yet only mental efficacy promoted problem solving and observed teamwork effectiveness.
822	enactive	2012	Froese, T	From adaptive behavior to human cognition: a review of Enaction	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Critics of the paradigm of enaction have long argued that enactive principles will be unable to account for the traditional domain of orthodox cognitive science, namely "higher-level" cognition and specifically human cognition. Moreover, even many of the paradigm's "lower-level" insights into embodiment and situatedness appear to be amenable to a functionalist reinterpretation. In this review, I show on the basis of the recently published collection of papers, Enaction, that the paradigm of enaction has (a) a unique foundation in the notion of sense-making that places fundamental limits on the scope of functionalist appropriation; (b) a unique perspective on higher-level cognition that sets important new research directions without the need for the concept of mental representation; (c) a new concept of specifically human cognition in terms of second-order sense-making; and (d) a rich variety of approaches to explain the evolutionary, historical, and developmental origins of this sophisticated human ability. I also indicate how studies of the role of embodiment for abstract human cognition can strengthen their position by reconceiving their notion of embodiment in enactive terms.
823	enactive	2009	Buehl, MM; Fives, H	Exploring Teachers' Beliefs About Teaching Knowledge: Where Does It Come From? Does It Change?	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL EDUCATION	The authors analyzed the open-ended responses of preservice (n = 53) and practicing (n = 57) teachers in terms of themes related to beliefs regarding the source and stability of teaching knowledge. Findings indicate that participants hold a range of beliefs regarding these constructs. Six themes related to the source of teaching knowledge emerged: formal education, formalized bodies of knowledge, observational learning, collaboration with others, enactive experiences, and self-reflection. For beliefs about the stability of teaching knowledge, individuals expressed beliefs about the amount, direction, and quality of knowledge change with regard to various aspects of knowledge (e.g., content knowledge, use and integration of technology, knowledge of development and pedagogy). The authors relate their findings to the existing literature and discuss the implications of the identified beliefs for future research as well as teacher education, development, and practice.
824	enactive	2012	Froese, T; Gallagher, S	Getting interaction theory (IT) together Integrating developmental, phenomenological, enactive, and dynamical approaches to social interaction	INTERACTION STUDIES	We argue that progress in our scientific understanding of the 'social mind' is hampered by a number of unfounded assumptions. We single out the widely shared assumption that social behavior depends solely on the capacities of an individual agent. In contrast, both developmental and phenomenological studies suggest that the personal-level capacity for detached 'social cognition' (conceived as a process of theorizing about and/or simulating another mind) is a secondary achievement that is dependent on more immediate processes of embodied social interaction. We draw on the enactive approach to cognitive science to further clarify this strong notion of 'social interaction' in theoretical terms. In addition, we indicate how this interaction theory (IT) could eventually be formalized with the help of a dynamical systems perspective on the interaction process, especially by making use of evolutionary robotics modeling. We conclude that bringing together the methods and insights of developmental, phenomenological, enactive and dynamical approaches to social interaction can provide a promising framework for future research.
825	enactive	2009	McGann, M; De Jaegher, H	Self-other contingencies: Enacting social perception	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Can we see the expressiveness of other people's gestures, hear the intentions in their voice, see the emotions in their posture? Traditional theories of social cognition still say we cannot because intentions and emotions for them are hidden away inside and we do not have direct access to them. Enactive theories still have no idea because they have so far mainly focused on perception of our physical world. We surmise, however, that the latter hold promise since, in trying to understand cognition, enactive theory focuses on the embodied engagements of a cognizer with his world. In this paper, we attempt an answer for the question What is social perception in an enactive account? In enaction, perception is conceived as a skill, crucially involving action (perception is action and action is perception), an ability to work successfully within the set of regularities, or contingencies that characterize a given domain. If this is the case, then social perception should be a social skill. Having thus transformed the question of what social perception is into that of what social skill is, we examine the concept of social contingencies and the manner in which social skills structure-both constrain and empower-social interaction. Some of the implications of our account for how social and physical perception differ, the role of embodiment in social interaction and the distinction between our approach and other social contingency theories are also addressed.
826	enactive	2008	Gallagher, S	Intersubjectivity in perception	CONTINENTAL PHILOSOPHY REVIEW	The embodied, embedded, enactive, and extended approaches to cognition explicate many important details for a phenomenology of perception, and are consistent with some of the traditional phenomenological analyses. Theorists working in these areas, however, often fail to provide an account of how intersubjectivity might relate to perception. This paper suggests some ways in which intersubjectivity is important for an adequate account of perception.
827	enactive	2012	Steffensen, SV	Care and conversing in dialogical systems	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	This article promotes a point of view on human interaction in terms of dialogical systems. The approach draws on recent, so-called third wave, developments in cognitive science. After an introduction to three waves in cognitive science, and their counterparts in linguistics, the article is placed in a tradition that is ecological, embodied and distributed. Its specific take on human interaction pursues these perspectives by claiming that language can neither be reduced to social rules in the micro-sociological domain, nor to biological properties of the individual being. As an alternative to these two positions, a theory of dialogical systems is developed, on the basis of current thinking within the enactive program (e.g. De Jaegher and Di Paolo, 2007), the distributed language movement (e.g. Cowley, 2011b), and values-realizing theory (e.g. Hodges, 2009). Dialogical systems are systems of co-present human beings engaged in interactivity that bring forth situated behavioural coordination (or a communicative, structural coupling). Dialogical systems, however, have emergent properties irreducible to individual actions or microsocial norms. Among the emergent properties one find a tendency to establish and uphold equilibriums that balance between various, at times opposing, values and tensions. This approach is exemplified through an analysis of a real-life conversation between a mother and a health visitor. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
828	enactive	2008	De Jaegher, H; Di Paolo, E	Making Sense in Participation: An Enactive Approach to Social Cognition	ENACTING INTERSUBJECTIVITY: A COGNITIVE AND SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE ON THE STUDY OF INTERACTIONS	Research on social cognition needs to overcome a disciplinary disintegration. On the one hand, in cognitive science and philosophy of mind even in recent embodied approaches - the explanatory weight is still overly on individual capacities. In social science on the other hand, the investigation of the interaction process and interactional behaviour is not often brought to bear on individual aspects of social cognition. Not bringing these approaches together has unfairly limited the range of possible explanations of social understanding to the postulation of complicated internal mechanisms (contingency detection modules for instance). Starting from the question What is a social interaction? we propose a fresh look at the problem aimed at integrating individual cognition and the interaction process in order to arrive at more parsimonious explanations of social understanding. We show how an enactive framework can provide a way to do this, starting from the notions of autonomy, sense-making and coordination. We propose that not only each individual in a social encounter but also the interaction process itself has autonomy. Examples illustrate that these autonomies evolve throughout an encounter, and that collective as well as individual mechanisms are at play in all social interactions. We also introduce the notion of participatory sense-making in order to connect meaning-generation with coordination. This notion describes a spectrum of degrees of participation from the modulation of individual sense-making by coordination patterns, over orientation, to joint sense-making. Finally, we discuss implications for empirical research on social interaction, especially for studies of social contingency.
829	enactive	2008	Sinigaglia, C	Enactive Understanding and Motor Intentionality	ENACTING INTERSUBJECTIVITY: A COGNITIVE AND SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE ON THE STUDY OF INTERACTIONS	Most of our social interactions rest upon our ability to understand the behavior of others. But what is really at the basis of this ability? The standard view is that we understand the behavior of others because we are able to read their mind, to represent them as individuals endowed with mental states such as beliefs, desires and intentions. Without this mindreading ability the behavior of others would be meaningless for us. Over the last few years, however, this view has been undermined by several neurophysiological findings and in particular by the discovery of mirror neurons. The functional properties of these neurons indicate that motor and intentional components of action are tightly intertwined, suggesting that the basic aspects of intentional understanding can be fully appreciated only on the basis of a motor approach to intentionality. This paper has a dual objective: to develop this approach in order to account for the crucial role of motor intentionality in action and intention understanding below and before any meta-representational ability, and to shed new light on the ontogeny of mindreading, by explaining how the first forms of understanding in infants may be intentional in nature, even without presupposing any explicit and deliberate mentalizing.
830	enactive	2014	Kyselo, M	The body social: an enactive approach to the self	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	This paper takes a new look at an old question: what is the human self? It offers a proposal for theorizing the self from an enactive perspective as an autonomous system that is constituted through interpersonal relations. It addresses a prevalent issue in the philosophy of cognitive science: the body-social problem. Embodied and social approaches to cognitive identity are in mutual tension. On the one hand, embodied cognitive science risks a new form of methodological individualism, implying a dichotomy not between the outside world of objects and the brain-bound individual but rather between body-bound individuals and the outside social world. On the other hand, approaches that emphasize the constitutive relevance of social interaction processes for cognitive identity run the risk of losing the individual in the interaction dynamics and of downplaying the role of embodiment. This paper adopts a middle way and outlines an enactive approach to individuation that is neither individualistic nor disembodied but integrates both approaches. Elaborating on Jonas' notion of needful freedom it outlines an enactive proposal to understanding the self as co-generated in interactions and relations with others. I argue that the human self is a social existence that is organized in terms of a back and forth between social distinction and participation processes. On this view, the body, rather than being identical with the social self, becomes its mediator.
831	enactive	2012	Ward, D; Stapleton, M	Es are good Cognition as enacted, embodied, embedded, affective and extended	CONSCIOUSNESS IN INTERACTION: THE ROLE OF THE NATURAL AND SOCIAL CONTEXT IN SHAPING CONSCIOUSNESS	We present a specific elaboration and partial defense of the claims that cognition is enactive, embodied, embedded, affective and (potentially) extended. According to the view we will defend, the enactivist claim that perception and cognition essentially depend upon the cognizer's interactions with their environment is fundamental. If a particular instance of this kind of dependence obtains, we will argue, then it follows that cognition is essentially embodied and embedded, that the underpinnings of cognition are inextricable from those of affect, that the phenomenon of cognition itself is essentially bound up with affect, and that the possibility of cognitive extension depends upon the instantiation of a specific mode of skillful interrelation between cognizer and environment. Thus, if cognition is enactive then it is also embodied, embedded, affective and potentially extended.
832	enactive	2009	Krueger, JW	Enacting Musical Experience	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	I argue for all enactive account of musical experience that is, the experience of listening 'deeply'(i.e., sensitively and understandingly) to a piece of music. The guiding question is: what do we do when we listen 'deeply' to music? I argue that these music listening episodes are, in fact, doings. They are instances of active perceiving, robust sensorimotor engagements with and manipulations of sonic structures within musical pieces. Music is thus experiential art, and in Nietzsche's words, 'we listen to music with our muscles'. This paper attempts to explicate and defend this claim. First, I discuss enactive approaches to consciousness and cognition generally. Next, I apply an enactive model of perceptual consciousness to the experience of listening to music. To clarify what is at stake, I use Peter Kivy's 'enhanced formalism' as a philosophical foil. I then look at how the animate body shapes musical experience.
833	enactive	2012	de Bruin, LC; Kastner, L	Dynamic Embodied Cognition	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	In this article, we investigate the merits of an enactive view of cognition for the contemporary debate about social cognition. If enactivism is to be a genuine alternative to classic cognitivism, it should be able to bridge the "cognitive gap", i.e. provide us with a convincing account of those higher forms of cognition that have traditionally been the focus of its cognitivist opponents. We show that, when it comes to social cognition, current articulations of enactivism are-despite their celebrated successes in explaining some cases of social interaction-not yet up to the task. This is because they (1) do not pay sufficient attention to the role of offline processing or "decoupling", and (2) obscure the cognitive gap by overemphasizing the role of phenomenology. We argue that the main challenge for the enactive view will be to acknowledge the importance of both coupled (online) and decoupled (offline) processes for basic and advanced forms of (social) cognition. To meet this challenge, we articulate a dynamic embodied view of cognition. We illustrate the fruitfulness of this approach by recourse to recent findings on false belief understanding.
834	enactive	2011	Morse, AF; Herrera, C; Clowes, R; Montebelli, A; Ziemke, T	The role of robotic modelling in cognitive science	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	From the perspective of cognitive robotics, this paper presents a modern interpretation of Newell's (1973) reasoning and suggestions for why and how cognitive psychologists should develop models of cognitive phenomena. We argue that the shortcomings of current cognitive modelling approaches are due in significant part to a lack of exactly the kind of integration required for the development of embodied autonomous robotics. Moreover we suggest that considerations of embodiment, situatedness, and autonomy, intrinsic to cognitive robotics, provide an appropriate basis for the integration and theoretic cumulation that Newell argued was necessary for psychology to mature. From this perspective we analyse the role of embodiment and modes of situatedness in terms of integration, cognition, emotion, and autonomy. Four complementary perspectives on embodied and situated cognitive science are considered in terms of their potential to contribute to cognitive robotics, cognitive science, and psychological theorizing: minimal cognition and organization, enactive perception and sensorimotor contingency, homeostasis and emotion, and social embedding. In combination these perspectives provide a framework for cognitive robotics, not only wholly compatible with the original aims of cognitive modelling, but as a more appropriate methodology than those currently in common use within psychology. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
835	enactive	2011	Froese, T	From Second-order Cybernetics to Enactive Cognitive Science: Varela's Turn From Epistemology to Phenomenology	SYSTEMS RESEARCH AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE	Varela is well known in the systems sciences for his work on second-order cybernetics, biology of cognition and especially autopoietic theory. His concern during this period was to find an appropriate epistemological foundation for the self-reference inherent in life and mind. In his later years, Varela began to develop the so-called enactive approach to cognitive science, which sets itself apart from other sciences by promoting a careful consideration of concrete experiential insights. His final efforts were thus dedicated to finding a pragmatic phenomenological foundation for life and mind. It is argued that Varela's experiential turn-from epistemology to phenomenology-can be seen as a natural progression that builds on many ideas that were already implicit in second-order cybernetics and biology of cognition. It is also suggested that the rigorous study of conscious experience may enable us to refine our theories and systemic concepts of life, mind and sociality. Copyright (C) 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
836	enactive	2010	McGann, M	Perceptual Modalities Modes of Presentation or Modes of Interaction?	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	Perceptual modalities have been traditionally considered the product of dedicated biological systems producing information for higher cognitive processing. Psychological and neuropsychological evidence is offered which undermines this point of view and an alternative account of modality from the enactive approach to understanding cognition is suggested. Under this view, a perceptual modality is a stable form of perception which is structured not just by the biological sensitivities of the agent, but by their goals and the set of skills or expertise which they are deploying at a given time. Such a view suggests that there is no such thing as an experience that is purely visual, auditory, or otherwise modal and that our attempts to understand consciousness and the mind must be conducted within a framework that provides an account of embodied, goal-directed adaptive coping with the world.
837	enactive	2008	Hutto, DD	Limited engagements and narrative extensions	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHICAL STUDIES	E-approaches to the mind stress the embodied, embedded and enactive nature of mental phenomena. In their more radical, non-representational variants these approaches offer innovative and powerful new ways of understanding fundamental modes of intersubjective social interaction: I-approaches. While promising, E and I accounts have natural limits. In particular, they are unable to explain human competence in making sense of reasons for actions in folk-psychological terms. In this paper I outline the core features of the 'Narrative Practice Hypothesis' (NPH), showing how it might take up that burden in a way which complements non-representationalist E and I accounts. I conclude by addressing a new-order eliminativist challenge from Ratcliffe that questions, inter alia, the very idea that there is anything like a well-defined folk-psychological competence that needs explaining, thereby rendering the NPH otiose. Additionally, I respond to Ratcliffe's claim that the relevant structures needed for the development of that competence do not reveal themselves in relevant narratives, rendering the NPH's developmental story impossible.
838	enactive	2015	Cusack, JP; Williams, JHG; Neri, P	Action Perception Is Intact in Autism Spectrum Disorder	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Autistic traits span a wide spectrum of behavioral departures from typical function. Despite the heterogeneous nature of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), there have been attempts at formulating unified theoretical accounts of the associated impairments in social cognition. A class of prominent theories capitalizes on the link between social interaction and visual perception: effective interaction with others often relies on discrimination of subtle nonverbal cues. It has been proposed that individuals with ASD may rely on poorer perceptual representations of other people's actions as returned by dysfunctional visual circuitry and that this, in turn, may lead to less effective interpretation of those actions for social behavior. It remains unclear whether such perceptual deficits exist in ASD: the evidence currently available is limited to specific aspects of action recognition, and the reported deficits are often attributable to cognitive factors that may not be strictly visual (e.g., attention). We present results from an exhaustive set of measurements spanning the entire action processing hierarchy, from motion detection to action interpretation, designed to factor out effects that are not selectively relevant to this function. Our results demonstrate that the ASD perceptual system returns functionally intact signals for interpreting other people's actions adequately; these signals can be accessed effectively when autistic individuals are prompted and motivated to do so under controlled conditions. However, they may fail to exploit them adequately during real-life social interactions.
839	enactive	2014	Froese, T; Iizuka, H; Ikegami, T	Using minimal human-computer interfaces for studying the interactive development of social awareness	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	According to the enactive approach to cognitive science, perception is essentially a skillful engagement with the world. Learning how to engage via a human-computer interface (HCI) can therefore be taken as an instance of developing a new mode of experiencing. Similarly, social perception is theorized to be primarily constituted by skillful engagement between people, which implies that it is possible to investigate the origins and development of social awareness using multi-user HCIs. We analyzed the trial-by-trial objective and subjective changes in sociality that took place during a perceptual crossing experiment in which embodied interaction between pairs of adults was mediated over a minimalist haptic HCI. Since that study required participants to implicitly relearn how to mutually engage so as to perceive each other's presence, we hypothesized that there would be indications that the initial developmental stages of social awareness were recapitulated. Preliminary results reveal that, despite the lack of explicit feedback about task performance, there was a trend for the clarity of social awareness to increase over time. We discuss the methodological challenges involved in evaluating whether this trend was characterized by distinct developmental stages of objective behavior and subjective experience.
840	enactive	2014	Schmalzl, L; Crane-Godreau, MA; Payne, P	Movement-based embodied contemplative practices: definitions and paradigms	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Over the past decades, cognitive neuroscience has witnessed a shift from predominantly disembodied and computational views of the mind, to more embodied and situated views of the mind. These postulate that mental functions cannot be fully understood without reference to the physical body and the environment in which they are experienced. Within the field of contemplative science, the directing of attention to bodily sensations has so far mainly been studied in the context of seated meditation and mindfulness practices. However, the cultivation of interoceptive, proprioceptive and kinesthetic awareness is also said to lie at the core of many movement-based contemplative practices such as Yoga, Qigong, and Tai Chi. In addition, it likely plays a key role in the efficacy of modern somatic therapeutic techniques such as the Feldenkrais Method and the Alexander Technique. In the current paper we examine how these practices are grounded in the concepts of embodiment, movement and contemplation, as we look at them primarily through the lens of an enactive approach to cognition. Throughout, we point to a series of challenges that arise when Western scientists study practices that are based on a non-dualistic view of mind and body.
841	enactive	2009	Sinigaglia, C	Mirror in Action	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	Several authors have recently pointed out the hypermentalism of the standard mindreading models, arguing for the need of an embodied and enactive approach to social cognition. Various attempts to provide an account of the primary ways of interacting with others, however, have fallen short of allowing for both what kind of intentional engagement is crucial in the basic forms of social navigation and also what neural mechanisms can be thought to underpin them. The aim of the paper is to counter this fault by showing that most of the primary ways of making sense of others are motor in nature and rooted in a specific brain mechanism: the mirror mechanism. I shall argue that the mirror-based making sense of others not only can be construed within the enactive approach to social cognition, but also allows us to reline it, supplying a plausible and unitary account of the early forms of social interaction.
842	enactive	2013	Cash, M	Cognition without borders: "Third wave" socially distributed cognition and relational autonomy	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	I contrast somewhat individualist arguments for first-wave "extended cognition" and second-wave "integrationist cognition" with what we can identify as a third wave of arguments for "socially and culturally distributed cognition", in which individual cognition takes place within, is supported by, and is mutually co-constructed with larger social, institutional, normative, political and technological systems and cultural practices. Such accounts must respond to the objection of "cognitive bloat". When does a processes count as my cognitive process? This objection is not best rebutted, as Clark often attempts, by limiting extension to processes that play a similar role to internal brain processes. Nor is it best addressed, as Gallagher (2013) does, by appealing to enactive engagement as grounding "ownership" of a process. Rather, the solution is in our shared, evolving, normative and social practices of holding people responsible for their actions. I support this by drawing parallels between socially distributed cognition and feminist relational theory, which has already addressed the issue of individual autonomy within social practices that shape individuals' selves, values, and capacities. I end by high-lighting political and ethical concerns raised by this conception of HEC regarding differential distribution of cognitive resources. (c) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
843	enactive	2013	Matyja, JR; Schiavio, A	Enactive Music Cognition: Background and Research Themes	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	> Context circle The past few years have presented us with a growing amount of theoretical research (yet that is often based on neuroscientific developments) in the field of enactive music cognition. > Problem circle Current cognitivist and embodied approaches to music cognition suffer, in our opinion, from a too firm commitment to the explanatory role of mental representations in musical experience. This particular problem can be solved by adopting an enactive approach to music cognition. > Method circle We present and compare cognitivist, embodied and enactive approaches to music cognition and review the current research in enactive music cognition. > Results circle We find that, in general, the enactive approaches to human musicality are capable of explaining the basic relationship between a musical subject and a musical object according to a pre-conceptual and pre-linguistic form of understanding related to bodily motor expertise. This explanation does not rely on on sophisticated forms of representation. > Implications circle Proponents of enactive music cognition should, in our opinion, focus on providing a consistent explanation of the most basic level of musical understanding. > Constructivist content circle We hope to invite the constructivist community to engage with the discussions on the intersection between music and enactivism.
844	enactive	2013	Froese, T; Woodward, A; Ikegami, T	Turing instabilities in biology, culture, and consciousness? On the enactive origins of symbolic material culture	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	It has been argued that the worldwide prevalence of certain types of geometric visual patterns found in prehistoric art can be best explained by the common experience of these patterns as geometric hallucinations during altered states of consciousness induced by shamanic ritual practices. And in turn the worldwide prevalence of these types of hallucinations has been explained by appealing to humanity's shared neurobiological embodiment. Moreover, it has been proposed that neural network activity can exhibit similar types of spatiotemporal patterns, especially those caused by Turing instabilities under disinhibited, non-ordinary conditions. Altered states of consciousness thus provide a suitable pivot point from which to investigate the complex relationships between symbolic material culture, first-person experience, and neurobiology. We critique prominent theories of these relationships. Drawing inspiration from neurophenomenology, we sketch the beginnings of an alternative, enactive approach centered on the concepts of sense-making, value, and sensorimotor decoupling.
845	enactive	2012	Gallagher, S; Miyahara, K	Neo-Pragmatism and Enactive Intentionality	ACTION, PERCEPTION AND THE BRAIN: ADAPTATION AND CEPHALIC EXPRESSION	0
846	enactive	2009	Di Paolo, EA	Overcoming Autopoiesis: An Enactive Detour on the Way from Life to Society	AUTOPOIESIS IN ORGANIZATION THEORY AND PRACTICE	0
847	enactive	2015	Steffensen, SV	Distributed Language and Dialogism: notes on non-locality, sense-making and interactivity	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	This article discusses the Distributed Language Approach (DLA) vis-a-vis Dialogism, as it is presented by Per Linell (2009, 2013, etc.). DLA is a naturalistic and anti-representational approach to language that builds on recent developments in the cognitive sciences. Dialogism (or dialogical metatheory in Linell's version), in contrast, is a meta-theoretical, "ecumenical" framework that draws on phenomenology, sociocultural theory, symbolic interactionism, ethnomethodology and Conversation Analysis. After an introduction to the two positions (Section 2), the article aims to clarify three aspects of a distributed view of language vis-a-vis the tradition of Dialogism. This clarification takes a starting point in Per Linell's (2013) review article on the book Distributed Language (Cowley, 2011a) and other contributions to DLA, including Cowleyet al. (2010) and Hodges et al. (2012b). First, the article discusses a central principle in DLA, "the principle of non-locality," and Linell's interpretation of it; more generally, this is a discussion of contrasting views on "the locus of language" and derived methodological issues (Section 3). Second, the article addresses Linell's critique of DLA as rooted in biosemiotics and in theories of organism-environment systems. It is argued that Linell's emphasis on sense-making in social interaction entails a dubious distinction between human sociality and human biology and human ecology. This distinction relates to the question of how conspecific Others acquire their status as prominent parts of the sense-maker's environment (Section 4). Third, and in continuation of the previous point, the article discusses the two frameworks' different ways of developing a non-individualist approach to human interaction. It is argued that the two frameworks differ in how they account for the constitution of the Self-Other relation (Section 5). In the conclusion (Section 6), it is discussed how the relation between the two approaches is most adequately conceptualised. It is considered what it implies to see the relation as complementary, competitive, or antagonistic. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
848	enactive	2013	Lin, JH	Do video games exert stronger effects on aggression than film? The role of media interactivity and identification on the association of violent content and aggressive outcomes	COMPUTERS IN HUMAN BEHAVIOR	This study investigated whether media interactivity would influence the short-term effects of violent content on audience aggression. The general aggression model, social cognitive theory, and character identification offered the theoretical framework. A random sample of 102 male college students were randomly assigned to one of three conditions: video game playing, recorded game-play watching, or movie watching. The results indicated that video game players (mediated enactive experience) experienced greater increases in aggressive affect, aggressive cognition, and physiological arousal than participants who watched recorded game play or comparable movie scenes (mediated observational experience). The study indicated that media interactivity in video game exacerbated the violent effect on short-term, aggressive responses. Character identification did not mediate the effect of media interactivity on aggression. Future studies should incorporate more comprehensive measures of character identification to investigate inconsistent findings regarding media interactivity and identification. (c) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
849	enactive	2005	McGee, K	Enactive Cognitive Science. Part 1: Background and Research Themes	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	Purpose: This paper is a brief introduction to enactive cognitive science: a description of some of the main research concerns; some examples of how such concerns have been realized in actual research; some of its research methods and proposed explanatory mechanisms and models; some of the potential as both a theoretical and applied science; and several of the major open research questions. Findings: Enactive cognitive science is an approach to the study of mind that seeks to explain how the structures and mechanisms of autonomous cognitive systems can arise and participate in the generation and maintenance of viable perceiver-dependent worlds - rather than more conventional cognitivist efforts, such as the attempt to explain cognition in terms of the "recovery" of (pre-given, timeless) features of The (objectively-existing and accessible) World. As such, enactive cognitive science is resonant with radical constructivism. Research implications: As with other scientific efforts conducted within a constructivist orientation, enactive cognitive science is broadly "conventional" in its scientific methodology. That is, there is a strong emphasis on testable hypotheses, empirical observation, supportable mechanisms and models, rigorous experimental methods, acceptable criteria of validation, and the like. Nonetheless, this approach to cognitive science does also raise a number of specific questions about the scope of amenable phenomena (e.g., meaning, consciousness, etc.) - and it also raises questions of whether such a perspective requires an expansion of what is typically considered within the purview of scientific method (e.g., the role of the observer/scientist).
850	enactive	2015	Cuffari, E; Paolo, E; Jaegher, H	From participatory sense-making to language: there and back again	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The enactive approach to cognition distinctively emphasizes autonomy, adaptivity, agency, meaning, experience, and interaction. Taken together, these principles can provide the new sciences of language with a comprehensive philosophical framework: languaging as adaptive social sense-making. This is a refinement and advancement on Maturana's idea of languaging as a manner of living. Overcoming limitations in Maturana's initial formulation of languaging is one of three motivations for this paper. Another is to give a response to skeptics who challenge enactivism to connect "lower-level" sense-making with "higher-order" sophisticated moves like those commonly ascribed to language. Our primary goal is to contribute a positive story developed from the enactive account of social cognition, participatory sense-making. This concept is put into play in two different philosophical models, which respectively chronicle the logical and ontogenetic development of languaging as a particular form of social agency. Languaging emerges from the interplay of coordination and exploration inherent in the primordial tensions of participatory sense-making between individual and interactive norms; it is a practice that transcends the self-other boundary and enables agents to regulate self and other as well as interaction couplings. Linguistic sense-makers are those who negotiate interactive and internalized ways of meta-regulating the moment-to-moment activities of living and cognizing. Sense-makers in enlanguaged environments incorporate sensitivities, roles, and powers into their unique yet intelligible linguistic bodies. We dissolve the problematic dichotomies of high/low, online/offline, and linguistic/nonlinguistic cognition, and we provide new boundary criteria for specifying languaging as a prevalent kind of human social sense-making.
851	enactive	2014	Hutto, DD; Kirchhoff, MD; Myin, E	Extensive enactivism: why keep it all in?	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Radical enactive and embodied approaches to cognitive science oppose the received view in the sciences of the mind in denying that cognition fundamentally involves contentful mental representation. This paper argues that the fate of representationalism in cognitive science matters significantly to how best to understand the extent of cognition. It seeks to establish that any move away from representationalism toward pure, empirical functionalism fails to provide a substantive "mark of the cognitive" and is bereft of other adequate means for individuating cognitive activity. It also argues that giving proper attention to the way the folk use their psychological concepts requires questioning the legitimacy of commonsense functionalism. In place of extended functionalism empirical or commonsensical-we promote the fortunes of extensive enactivism, clarifying in which ways it is distinct from notions of extended mind and distributed cognition.
852	enactive	2014	Barrett, L; Pollet, TV; Stulp, G	From computers to cultivation: reconceptualizing evolutionary psychology	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Does evolutionary theorizing have a role in psychology? This is a more contentious issue than one might imagine, given that, as evolved creatures, the answer must surely be yes. The contested nature of evolutionary psychology lies not in our status as evolved beings, but in the extent to which evolutionary ideas add value to studies of human behavior, and the rigor with which these ideas are tested. This, in turn, is linked to the framework in which particular evolutionary ideas are situated. While the framing of the current research topic places the brain-as-computer metaphor in opposition to evolutionary psychology, the most prominent school of thought in this field (born out of cognitive psychology, and often known as the Santa Barbara school) is entirely wedded to the computational theory of mind as an explanatory framework. Its unique aspect is to argue that the mind consists of a large number of functionally specialized (i.e., domain-specific) computational mechanisms, or modules (the massive modularity hypothesis). Far from offering an alternative to, or an improvement on, the current perspective, we argue that evolutionary psychology is a mainstream computational theory, and that its arguments for domain-specificity often rest on shaky premises. We then go on to suggest that the various forms of e-cognition (i.e., embodied, embedded, enactive) represent a true alternative to standard computational approaches, with an emphasis on "cognitive integration" or the "extended mind hypothesis" in particular. We feel this offers the most promise for human psychology because it incorporates the social and historical processes that are crucial to human "mind-making" within an evolutionarily informed framework. In addition to linking to other research areas in psychology, this approach is more likely to form productive links to other disciplines within the social sciences, not least by encouraging a healthy pluralism in approach.
853	enactive	2012	Georgeon, OL; Ritter, FE	An intrinsically-motivated schema mechanism to model and simulate emergent cognition	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	We introduce an approach to simulate the early mechanisms of emergent cognition based on theories of enactive cognition and on constructivist epistemology. The agent has intrinsic motivations implemented as inborn proclivities that drive the agent in a proactive way. Following these drives, the agent autonomously learns regularities afforded by the environment, and hierarchical sequences of behaviors adapted to these regularities. The agent represents its current situation in terms of perceived affordances that develop through the agent's experience. This situational representation works as an emerging situation awareness that is grounded in the agent's interaction with its environment and that in turn generates expectations and activates adapted behaviors. Through its activity and these aspects of behavior (behavioral proclivity, situation awareness, and hierarchical sequential learning), the agent starts to exhibit emergent sensibility, intrinsic motivation, and autonomous learning. Following theories of cognitive development, we argue that this initial autonomous mechanism provides a basis for implementing autonomously developing cognitive systems. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
854	enactive	2008	Talero, ML	The experiential workspace and the limits of empirical investigation	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHICAL STUDIES	In this paper, I develop the notion of the experiential workspace, or the phenomenal setting generated by the coupling between the enactive body and its affordance-laden environment, in order to carry out a fine-grained analysis of enactive experiential phenomena, in particular those of ordinary lived experience. My purpose is to shed light on some of the ways that empirical methodologies are intrinsically limited in their ability to capture the native phenomena of enactive, embodied experience. Drawing on the work of Merleau-Ponty, I argue that the experiential workspace is characterized by dynamic mutability, emergent norms, and epistemic openness - characteristics that are transphenomenal in nature and thus resistant to empirical measurement. Using concepts from the work of developmental psychologist Lev Vygotsky (1978) and feminist philosopher Iris Marion Young (1998), I will show how our embeddedness in an intersubjective world makes the experiential workspace a mercurial, labile phenomenon, characterized by inherently transphenomenal features that are resistant to naturalistic analysis or modelling.
855	enactive	2012	Reybrouck, M	Musical Sense-Making and the Concept of Affordance: An Ecosemiotic and Experiential Approach	BIOSEMIOTICS	This article is interdisciplinary in its claims. Evolving around the ecological concept of affordance, it brings together pragmatics and ecological psychology. Starting from the theoretical writings of Peirce, Dewey and James, the biosemiotic claims of von Uexkull, Gibson's ecological approach to perception and some empirical evidence from recent neurobiological research, it elaborates on the concepts of experiential and enactive cognition as applied to music. In order to provide an operational description of this approach, it introduces some conceptual tools from the domain of cybernetics with a major focus on the concept of circularity, which links perception to action in a continuous process of sense-making and interaction with the environment. As such, it is closely related to some pragmatic, biosemiotic and ecosemiotic claims which can be subsumed under the general notion of functional significance. An attempt is made to apply this conceptual framework to the process of musical sense-making which involves the realisation of systemic cognition in the context of epistemic interactions that are grounded in our biology and possibilities for adaptive control. Central in this approach is the concept of coping with the environment, or, in musical terms, to perceive the sounding music in terms of what it affords for the consummation of musical behaviour.
856	enactive	2012	Brown, L; Coles, A	Developing "deliberate analysis" for learning mathematics and for mathematics teacher education: how the enactive approach to cognition frames reflection	EDUCATIONAL STUDIES IN MATHEMATICS	We illustrate and exemplify how the idea of reflection is framed by the enactive concept of "deliberate analysis". In keeping with this frame, we do not attempt to define reflection but rather work on the question of "how do we do reflecting?" within such a frame. We set out our enactivist theoretical stance, in particular pointing to implications for how we can learn from experience and showing the role of "deliberate analysis". We then describe, drawing on education literature, what is generally seen as the purpose of reflection and review some existing conceptualizations in mathematics education, pointing out where we draw distinctions. To illustrate how we do reflecting, we offer excerpts from two lessons of an expert teacher and the writing of a prospective teacher. We exemplify how reflecting as deliberate analysis leads to a way of working with teachers supporting them in handling multiple views and ambiguity, their actions being contingent upon their students' actions in learning mathematics.
857	enactive	2012	Engestrom, Y; Nummijoki, J; Sannino, A	Embodied Germ Cell at Work: Building an Expansive Concept of Physical Mobility in Home Care	MIND CULTURE AND ACTIVITY	This article presents a process of collective formation of a new concept of mobility between home care workers and their elderly clients, who are at risk of losing physical mobility and functional capacity. A new tool called mobility agreement was introduced to facilitate the inclusion of regular mobility exercises in home care visits and in the daily lives of the clients. Our analysis starts with an overview of those visits in 2008 and 2009. We then analyze in detail one visit conducted in 2011, after two years of implementation of the mobility agreement. The analysis brings together the dialectical principle of ascending from the abstract to the concrete with the help of a germ cell, and key ideas from embodied and enactive cognition. During the visits a new concept of mobility began to emerge in the simple movement of standing up from the chair. This new concept transcends and overcomes the contradiction between safety and autonomy. Also it embeds and integrates mobility into necessary everyday actions of the old person. It is accomplished jointly with the nurse and relying on often innovative uses of everyday household artifacts. Finally, the new concept frames physical mobility in terms of sustainability.
858	enactive	2016	Hohwy, J	The Self-Evidencing Brain	NOUS	An exciting theory in neuroscience is that the brain is an organ for prediction error minimization (PEM). This theory is rapidly gaining influence and is set to dominate the science of mind and brain in the years to come. PEM has extreme explanatory ambition, and profound philosophical implications. Here, I assume the theory, briefly explain it, and then I argue that PEM implies that the brain is essentially self-evidencing. This means it is imperative to identify an evidentiary boundary between the brain and its environment. This boundary defines the mind-world relation, opens the door to skepticism, and makes the mind transpire as more inferentially secluded and neurocentrically skull-bound than many would nowadays think. Therefore, PEM somewhat deflates contemporary hypotheses that cognition is extended, embodied and enactive; however, it can nevertheless accommodate the kinds of cases that fuel these hypotheses.
859	enactive	2015	Oberg, GK; Normann, B; Gallagher, S	Embodied-enactive clinical reasoning in physical therapy	PHYSIOTHERAPY THEORY AND PRACTICE	Clinical reasoning is essential in physical therapy practice. Instrumental approaches and more recent narrative approaches to clinical reasoning guide physical therapists in their understanding of the patient's movement disturbances and help them to plan strategies to improve function. To the extent that instrumental and/or narrative models of clinical reasoning represent impairments as mere physical disturbances, we argue that such models remain incomplete. We draw on a phenomenologically inspired approach to embodied cognition (termed "enactivism") to suggest that the dynamics of lived bodily engagement between physical therapist and patient contribute to and help to constitute the clinical reasoning process. This article outlines the phenomenologically informed enactive perspective on clinical reasoning, with special reference to clinical work that addresses impairments as sequelae of neurological diseases.
860	enactive	2013	Kyselo, M	Locked-in Syndrome and BCI - Towards an Enactive Approach to the Self	NEUROETHICS	It has been argued that Extended Cognition (EXT), a recently much discussed framework in the philosophy of cognition, would serve as the theoretical basis to account for the impact of Brain Computer Interfaces (BCI) on the self and life of patients with Locked-in Syndrome (LIS). In this paper I will argue that this claim is unsubstantiated, EXT is not the appropriate theoretical background for understanding the role of BCI in LIS. I will critically assess what a theory of the extended self would comprise and provide a list of desiderata for a theory of self that EXT fails to accommodate for. There is, however, an alternative framework in Cognitive Science, Enactivism, which entails the basis for an account of self that is able to accommodate for these desiderata. I will outline some first steps towards an Enactive approach to the self, suggesting that the self could be considered as a form of human autonomy. Understanding the self from an enactive point of view will allow to shed new light on the questions of whether and how BCIs affect or change the selves of patients with LIS.
861	enactive	2013	Stapleton, M	Steps to a "Properly Embodied" cognitive science	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Cognitive systems research has predominantly been guided by the historical distinction between emotion and cognition, and has focused its efforts on modelling the "cognitive" aspects of behaviour. While this initially meant modelling only the control system of cognitive creatures, with the advent of "embodied" cognitive science this expanded to also modelling the interactions between the control system and the external environment. What did not seem to change with this embodiment revolution, however, was the attitude towards affect and emotion in cognitive science. This paper argues that cognitive systems research is now beginning to integrate these aspects of natural cognitive systems into cognitive science proper, not in virtue of traditional "embodied cognitive science", which focuses predominantly on the body's gross morphology, but rather in virtue of research into the interoceptive, organismic basis of natural cognitive systems. (c) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
862	enactive	2013	Witherington, DC; Heying, S	Embodiment and Agency: Toward a Holistic Synthesis for Developmental Science	EMBODIMENT AND EPIGENESIS: THEORETICAL AND METHODOLOGICAL ISSUES IN UNDERSTANDING THE ROLE OF BIOLOGY WITHIN THE RELATIONAL DEVELOPMENTAL SYSTEM, PT A: PHILOSOPHICAL, THEORETICAL, AND BIOLOGICAL DIMENSIONS	Relational, systems-oriented approaches are strongly positioned to advance theory and research in developmental science and to cement a process orientation to development at all levels of organization from the biological to the psychological and sociocultural despite continued prominence in the field of biologically reductionist explanatory accounts. However, the inclusive, explanatorily pluralistic ontological framework involved in adopting a relational perspective on developing systems is not always fully appreciated, explicitly articulated or even followed by devotees of the perspective. In this chapter, we highlight the importance of holistically couching interlevel relations those that obtain vertically between levels of organization, such as between the biological and psychological levels in terms of wholes and parts and of recognizing the different modes of causal explanation that obtain depending on whether the relations move from parts-to-whole or whole-to-parts. This, in turn, yields an explanatory pluralism under which all living systems, at any level of organization, exist as both subjects and objects. We ground this discussion by examining the ontological compatibility with a relational developmental systems perspective of two systems-oriented approaches to embodiment: the dynamic systems approach of Thelen and Smith (1994, 2006) and the enactive approach of Varela, Thompson, and Rosch (1991).
863	enactive	2015	Schiavio, A; Hoffding, S	Playing together without communicating? A pre-reflective and enactive account of joint musical performance	MUSICAE SCIENTIAE	In this article we explore the role of pre-reflective, embodied, and interactive intentionality in joint musical performance. Putting together insights from phenomenology and current theories in cognitive science, we present a case study based on qualitative interviews with the Danish String Quartet (DSQ). A total of 12 hours of interviews was recorded, drawing on ethnography-related methodologies during tours with the DSQ in Denmark and England in 2012 and 2013, focusing mainly on their experience of perception, intentionality, absorption, selfhood and intersubjectivity. The analysis emerging from our data suggests that expert musicians' experience of collective music-making is rooted in the dynamical patterns of perception and action that co-constitute the sonic environment(s) in which they are embedded, and that the role of attention and other reflective processes should therefore be reconsidered. In putting forward our view on ensemble cohesion, we challenge Keller's and Seddon and Biasutti's influential positions, maintaining that the cognitive processes at play in such intersubjective context are grounded in the concrete (inter)actions of the players, and are not reducible to processes and structures in the head'. We argue that this is a significant step forward from more traditional accounts of joint musical performances, which often involve mental representations as principal explanatory tools - downplaying the embodied and participatory dimension of music-making - and we conclude that ensemble performance can take place without attention to either shared goals, or to the other ensemble musicians. We finally suggest that if other researchers want to understand what it is like to play with other musicians then they must shift their focus from Joint Musical Attention (JMA) to Joint Musical Experience (JME), facilitating the development of more ecologically valid models of collective musical performance.
864	enactive	2015	Hutto, DD; Kirchhoff, MD; Abrahamson, D	The Enactive Roots of STEM: Rethinking Educational Design in Mathematics	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	New and radically reformative thinking about the enactive and embodied basis of cognition holds out the promise of moving forward age-old debates about whether we learn and how we learn. The radical enactive, embodied view of cognition (REC) poses a direct, and unmitigated, challenge to the trademark assumptions of traditional cognitivist theories of mind-those that characterize cognition as always and everywhere grounded in the manipulation of contentful representations of some kind. REC has had some success in understanding how sports skills and expertise are acquired. But, REC approaches appear to encounter a natural obstacle when it comes to understanding skill acquisition in knowledge-rich, conceptually based domains like the hard sciences and mathematics. This paper offers a proof of concept that REC's reach can be usefully extended into the domain of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) learning, especially when it comes to understanding the deep roots of such learning. In making this case, this paper has five main parts. The section "Ancient Intellectualism and the REC Challenge" briefly introduces REC and situates it with respect to rival views about the cognitive basis of learning. The "Learning REConceived: from Sports to STEM?" section outlines the substantive contribution REC makes to understanding skill acquisition in the domain of sports and identifies reasons for doubting that it will be possible to apply the same approach to knowledge-rich STEM domains. The "Mathematics as Embodied Practice" section gives the general layout for how to understand mathematics as an embodied practice. The section "The Importance of Attentional Anchors" introduces the concept "attentional anchor" and establishes why attentional anchors are important to educational design in STEM domains like mathematics. Finally, drawing on some exciting new empirical studies, the section "Seeing Attentional Anchors" demonstrates how REC can contribute to understanding the roots of STEM learning and inform its learning design, focusing on the case of mathematics.
865	enactive	2015	Hutto, DD; Sanchez-Garcia, R	Choking RECtified: embodied expertise beyond Dreyfus	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	On a Dreyfusian account performers choke when they reflect upon and interfere with established routines of purely embodied expertise. This basic explanation of choking remains popular even today and apparently enjoys empirical support. Its driving insight can be understood through the lens of diverse philosophical visions of the embodied basis of expertise. These range from accounts of embodied cognition that are ultra conservative with respect to representational theories of cognition to those that are more radically embodied. This paper provides an account of the acquisition of embodied expertise, and explanation of the choking effect, from the most radically enactive, embodied perspective, spelling out some of its practical implications and addressing some possible philosophical challenges. Specifically, we propose: (i) an explanation of how skills can be acquired on the basis of ecological dynamics; and (ii) a non-linear pedagogy that takes into account how contentful representations might scaffold skill acquisition from a radically enactive perspective.
866	enactive	2014	Fantasia, V; De Jaegher, H; Fasulo, A	We can work it out: an enactive look at cooperation	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The past years have seen an increasing debate on cooperation and its unique human character. Philosophers and psychologists have proposed that cooperative activities are characterized by shared goals to which participants are committed through the ability to understand each other's intentions. Despite its popularity, some serious issues arise with this approach to cooperation. First, one may challenge the assumption that high-level mental processes are necessary for engaging in acting cooperatively. If they are, then how do agents that do not possess such ability (preverbal children, or children with autism who are often claimed to be mind-blind) engage in cooperative exchanges, as the evidence suggests? Secondly, to define cooperation as the result of two de-contextualized minds reading each other's intentions may fail to fully acknowledge the complexity of situated, interactional dynamics and the interplay of variables such as the participants' relational and personal history and experience. In this paper we challenge such accounts of cooperation, calling for an embodied approach that sees cooperation not only as an individual attitude toward the other, but also as a property of interaction processes. Taking an enactive perspective, we argue that cooperation is an intrinsic part of any interaction, and that there can be cooperative interaction before complex communicative abilities are achieved. The issue then is not whether one is able or not to read the other's intentions, but what it takes to participate in joint action. From this basic account, it should be possible to build up more complex forms of cooperation as needed. Addressing the study of cooperation in these terms may enhance our understanding of human social development, and foster our knowledge of different ways of engaging with others, as in the case of autism.
867	enactive	2014	Beer, RD	The Cognitive Domain of a Glider in the Game of Life	ARTIFICIAL LIFE	This article examines in some technical detail the application of Maturana and Varela's biology of cognition to a simple concrete model: a glider in the game of Life cellular automaton. By adopting an autopoietic perspective on a glider, the set of possible perturbations to it can be divided into destructive and nondestructive subsets. From a glider's reaction to each nondestructive perturbation, its cognitive domain is then mapped. In addition, the structure of a glider's possible knowledge of its immediate environment, and the way in which that knowledge is grounded in its constitution, are fully described. The notion of structural coupling is then explored by characterizing the paths of mutual perturbation that a glider and its environment can undergo. Finally, a simple example of a communicative interaction between two gliders is given. The article concludes with a discussion of the potential implications of this analysis for the enactive approach to cognition.
868	enactive	2014	Cappuccio, M; Froese, T	Enactive Cognition at the Edge of Sense-Making Making Sense of Non-Sense Introduction	ENACTIVE COGNITION AT THE EDGE OF SENSE-MAKING: MAKING SENSE OF NON-SENSE	0
869	enactive	2013	Georgeon, OL; Marshall, JB; Manzotti, R	ECA: An enactivist cognitive architecture based on sensorimotor modeling	BIOLOGICALLY INSPIRED COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURES	A novel way to model an agent interacting with an environment is introduced, called an Enactive Markov Decision Process (EMDP). An EMDP keeps perception and action embedded within sensorimotor schemes rather than dissociated, in compliance with theories of embodied cognition. Rather than seeking a goal associated with a reward, as in reinforcement learning, an EMDP agent learns to master the sensorimotor contingencies offered by its coupling with the environment. In doing so, the agent exhibits a form of intrinsic motivation related to the autotelic principle (Steels, 2004), and a value system attached to interactions called interactional motivation. This modeling approach allows the design of agents capable of autonomous self-programming, which provides rudimentary constitutive autonomy-a property that theoreticians of enaction consider necessary for autonomous sense-making (e.g., Froese & Ziemke, 2009). A cognitive architecture is presented that allows the agent to discover, memorize, and exploit spatio-sequential regularities of interaction, called Enactive Cognitive Architecture (ECA). In our experiments, behavioral analysis shows that ECA agents develop active perception and begin to construct their own ontological perspective on the environment. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
870	enactive	2013	Hutto, DD	Action understanding: How low can you go?	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	This paper begins by reminding the reader of the standard arguments that sceptics offer for doubting that mirror neurons could constitute any kind of action understanding (Section 2). It then outlines the usual response to these sceptical worries made by believers (Section 3). An attempt to put flesh on this idea in terms of what brains understand is critically examined and found wanting (Section 4). The ensuing analysis shows that it is prima facie possible to develop a more tenable account of enactive understanding that would fit the bill (Section 5). However, a second look raises further questions about (A) what mirror neurons target and (B) what such targeting involves (Section 6). Finally it is concluded that while mirror neurons may play a central role in enabling non-mentalistic forms of intersubjective engagement this falls short of action understanding (Section 7). (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
871	enactive	2013	Lin, JH	Identification Matters: A Moderated Mediation Model of Media Interactivity, Character Identification, and Video Game Violence on Aggression	JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION	This study examined the effects of interactivity in violent video games on aggression and tested identification as the moderated mediating mechanism. A total of 169 male undergraduate students participated in a 2 media interactivity (enactive mediation vs. observational mediation) x 2 violence (violent vs. nonviolent) experiment. Results supported a moderated mediation model in which the effect of media interactivity on aggressive affect through identification was moderated by violence. When violence was present, interactive play resulted in higher short-term aggressive affect through higher character identification than when violence was not present. Additionally, an interaction effect between media interactivity and violence was found for automatic self-concept in which players associated themselves more with the game character's traits than video viewers.
872	enactive	2013	Hutto, D	Exorcising action oriented representations: ridding cognitive science of its Nazgul	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	This paper reviews two main strategies for dealing with the threat posed by radically enactive/embodied cognition to traditional cognitive science. Both strategies invoke action oriented representations (AORs). They differ in emphasizing different features of AORs in their attempt to answer the REC threat - focusing on their contents and vehicles, respectively. The first two sections review the central motivations and rationales driving the content' and format' strategies in turn and raise initial concerns about the tenability of each. With respect to the content' strategy, these worries ought to make us suspicious about the explanatory value of positing AORs. Although the format' strategy has a way of answering this concern, it raises a more fundamental worry about the motivation for even believing in AORs in the first place. Although these worries cast doubt on the feasibility of invoking AORs as a means of dealing with the REC threat, they do not constitute conclusive reasons for eliminating AORs altogether. There are other, stronger reasons for supposing that we should. The third section provides a sketch of a master argument, developed elsewhere, which makes that case in full dress fashion. The final section - Resurrection?' - considers and rejects the possibility that AORs might be resurrected, even if it is agreed that the master argument cited in the third section succeeds.
873	enactive	2013	Hutto, DD	Radically Enactive Cognition in Our Grasp	HAND, AN ORGAN OF THE MIND: WHAT THE MANUAL TELLS THE MENTAL	0
874	enactive	2013	Moran, N	Music, bodies and relationships: An ethnographic contribution to embodied cognition studies	PSYCHOLOGY OF MUSIC	This article sets out the methodology and results of part of an ethnographic study of North Indian music performance where qualitative interviews were analyzed with grounded theory to explore how musicians conceive of musical communication. The findings highlight the importance of socially-responsive movement cues that musicians use to co-ordinate their participation in musical events. Effective musical communication, as explored in this article, is seen to depend on the manifestation and maintenance of the relationships between participants. This analytical attention to the moment-by-moment processes of interaction that musicians must engage in chimes with current enactive approaches to cognition. The article concludes by discussing the role of music research in the development of such work, suggesting that empirical research into music as social interaction could provide important insights for an enactive understanding of human cognition.
875	enactive	2010	Cain, P	Drawing: The Enactive Evolution of the Practitioner	DRAWING: THE ENACTIVE EVOLUTION OF THE PRACTITIONER	0
876	enactive	2015	van der Schyff, D	Music as a manifestation of life: exploring enactivism and the 'eastern perspective' for music education	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The enactive approach to cognition is developed in the context of music and music education. I discuss how this embodied point of view affords a relational and biocultural perspective on music that decentres the Western focus on language, symbol and representation as the fundamental arbiters of meaning. I then explore how this 'life-based' approach to cognition and meaning-making offers a welcome alternative to standard Western academic approaches to music education. More specifically, I consider how the enactive perspective may aid in developing deeper ecological understandings of the transformative, extended and interpenetrative nature of the embodied musical mind; and thus help (re)connect students and teachers to the lived experience of their own learning and teaching. Following this, I examine related concepts associated with Buddhist psychology in order to develop possibilities for a contemplative music pedagogy. To conclude, I consider how an enactive-contemplative perspective may help students and teachers awaken to the possibilities of music education as 'ontological education.' That is, through a deeper understanding of 'music as a manifestation of life' rediscover their primordial nature as autopoietic and world-making creatures and thus engage more deeply with musicality as a means of forming richer and more compassionate relationships with their peers, their communities and the 'natural' and cultural worlds they inhabit.
877	enactive	2014	Maiese, M	How can emotions be both cognitive and bodily?	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The long-standing debate between cognitive and feeling theories of emotion stems, in part, from the assumption that cognition and thought are abstract, intellectual, disembodied processes, and that bodily feelings are non-intentional and have no representational content. Working with this assumption has led many emotions theorists to neglect the way in which emotions are simultaneously bodily and cognitive-evaluative. Even hybrid theories, such as those set forth by Prinz (2004) and Barlassina and Newen (2013), fail to account fully for how the cognitive and bodily elements of emotion are integrated. As a result, such accounts are unable to provide an adequate characterization of the intentionality or phenomenology of emotions. I will argue that an enactive account of emotions, one which characterizes them as a way of engaging with and making sense of one's surroundings, can help us to overcome this false dichotomy between cognitive and body elements. What I call 'affective framing' is at the core of emotional experience. It is the way in which we engage with and appraise our surroundings in and through bodily feelings of caring, so that the bodily and cognitive elements of emotion necessarily are fused. The notion of affective framing not only helps to clarify the relationship between bodily and cognitive elements of emotion, but also offers a useful way to make sense of both the intentional directedness and phenomenal character of emotional experience.
878	enactive	2014	Laroche, J; Berardi, AM; Brangier, E	Embodiment of intersubjective time: relational dynamics as attractors in the temporal coordination of interpersonal behaviors and experiences	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	This paper addresses the issue of "being together," and more specifically the issue of "being together in time." We provide with an integrative framework that is inspired by phenomenology, the enactive approach and dynamical systems theories. To do so, we first define embodiment as a living and lived phenomenon that emerges from agent-world coupling. We then show that embodiment is essentially dynamical and therefore we describe experiential, behavioral and brain dynamics. Both lived temporality and the temporality of the living appear to be complex, multiscale phenomena. Next we discuss embodied dynamics in the context of interpersonal interactions, and briefly review the empirical literature on between-persons temporal coordination. Overall, we propose that being together in time emerges from the relational dynamics of embodied interactions and their flexible co-regulation.
879	enactive	2014	Jensen, TW; Cuffari, E	Doubleness in Experience: Toward a Distributed Enactive Approach to Metaphoricity	METAPHOR AND SYMBOL	A new concept of cognition also implies a novel approach to the study of metaphor. This insight is the starting point of this article presenting two innovations to comprehending and analyzing metaphor, one theoretical and one in terms of methodology. On a theoretical level we argue for a new orientation to metaphor and metaphoricity based on enactive cognition and distributed language and cognition. In recent years enactive and distributed cognition have been developing a new concept of cognition as an inter-bodily and ecologically afforded achievement, and in light of this theoretical development we propose an approach to metaphor as a multi-body, multi-party, and multi-timescale phenomenon. On a methodological level we demonstrate a new way of analyzing metaphoricity in multimodal social interaction based on in-depth video analyses of two real life examples in which we introduce metaphorical identification criteria focusing on doubleness in meaning, affordances for co-action, co-ordination, and co-experience. Here metaphoricity is explored as a distinct and emergent aspect of the coordination processes that constitute social interaction. In the final section we point to the general findings of the analyses and discuss the challenges that conceptual metaphor theory faces in the light of the new tendencies within cognitive science as well as a possible way forward.
880	enactive	2012	Floyd, J	Action research and integral futures studies: A path to embodied foresight	FUTURES	Action research principles and practices have a long history of application in the futures field, and in recent years have seen a resurgence of interest. With the emergence of integral foresight and futures studies, action research takes on increased significance as a pathway to development of expertise in this new domain. This article outlines the essential characteristics of action research, and looks at how action research has influenced futures studies to date. It then explores in more depth the specific congruence between action research practices and the principles of integral foresight and futures studies. An approach to understanding expertise in futures and foresight practice consistent with the integral perspective is explored. This draws on the enactive approach to cognition and leads to a model of expertise described as embodied foresight. Action research is proposed as an important contributor to the development of embodied foresight. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
881	enactive	2009	Gangopadhyay, N; Kiverstein, J	Enactivism and the Unity of Perception and Action	TOPOI-AN INTERNATIONAL REVIEW OF PHILOSOPHY	This paper contrasts two enactive theories of visual experience: the sensorimotor theory (O'Regan and NoA <<, Behav Brain Sci 24(5):939-1031, 2001; NoA << and O'Regan, Vision and mind, 2002; NoA <<, Action in perception, 2004) and Susan Hurley's (Consciousness in action, 1998, Synthese 129:3-40, 2001) theory of active perception. We criticise the sensorimotor theory for its commitment to a distinction between mere sensorimotor behaviour and cognition. This is a distinction that is firmly rejected by Hurley. Hurley argues that personal level cognitive abilities emerge out of a complex dynamic feedback system at the subpersonal level. Moreover reflection on the role of eye movements in visual perception establishes a further sense in which a distinction between sensorimotor behaviour and cognition cannot be sustained. The sensorimotor theory has recently come under critical fire (see e.g. Block, J Philos CII(5):259-272, 2005; Prinz, Psyche, 12(1):1-19, 2006; Aizawa, J Philos CIV(1), 2007) for mistaking a merely causal contribution of action to perception for a constitutive contribution. We further argue that the sensorimotor theory is particularly vulnerable to this objection in a way that Hurley's active perception theory is not. This presents an additional reason for preferring Hurley's theory as providing a conceptual framework for the enactive programme.
882	enactive	2016	De Jaegher, H; Di Paolo, E; Adolphs, R	What does the interactive brain hypothesis mean for social neuroscience? A dialogue	PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES	A recent framework inspired by phenomenological philosophy, dynamical systems theory, embodied cognition and robotics has proposed the interactive brain hypothesis (IBH). Whereas mainstream social neuroscience views social cognition as arising solely from events in the brain, the IBH argues that social cognition requires, in addition, causal relations between the brain and the social environment. We discuss, in turn, the foundational claims for the IBH in its strongest form; classical views of cognition that can be raised against the IBH; a defence of the IBH in the light of these arguments; and a response to this. Our goal is to initiate a dialogue between cognitive neuroscience and enactive views of social cognition. We conclude by suggesting some new directions and emphases that social neuroscience might take.
883	enactive	2016	Clowes, RW; Mendonca, D	Representation Redux: Is there still a useful role for representation to play in the context of embodied, dynamicist and situated theories of mind?	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The last fifteen years have seen a sea change in cognitive science where issues of embodiment, situatedness and dynamics have become central to the explanatory resources in use. This paper evaluates the suggestion that representation should be eliminated from the explanative vocabulary of cognitive science. We trace the history of the issue by examining the usefulness of action-oriented representation (AOR), and we reassess if there is still a good explanatory role for the notion of representation in contemporary cognitive science by looking at contexts of re-use, contexts of informational fusion and elaboration, contexts of virtualist perception, and contexts of representational extension, restructuring and substitution. We claim that in these contexts the notion of representation continues to fulfill a valuable function in linking the inner informational economy of cognitive systems to how they interact and couple with the world, and that the role of representation in explanation has not been superseded by enactive and radical embodied theories of cognition. The final section of the paper suggests that we might be better off adopting a more pluralist research perspective, accepting that certain branches of cognitive science seem to require the positing of representations in order to develop, whereas others (e.g. research into minimal cognitive systems), do not appear to require it. We conclude that trying to suppress the notion of representation in all areas of cognitive science is seriously misguided. (C) 2015 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
884	enactive	2015	Silberstein, M; Chemero, A	Extending Neutral Monism to the Hard Problem	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	We agree with critics that enactive, sensorimotor, and ecological accounts of conscious experience do not in and of themselves fully deflate the hard problem of consciousness. As we noted in our earlier work (Silberstein and Chemero, 2011a), even if an extended account of cognition and intentionality allows us to be rid of qualia by deflating the dualism between intentionality and phenomenal experience, the heart of the hard problem, namely subjectivity, still remains. We argue that in order to resolve or deflate the hard problem the hypothesis of extended consciousness needs to be understood as an expression of neutral monism and can quite naturally be understood that way.
885	enactive	2013	Parthemore, J	The Unified Conceptual Space Theory: an enactive theory of concepts	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Theories of concepts address systematically and productively structured thought. Until the Unified Conceptual Space Theory (UCST), based on Peter Gardenfors' Conceptual Spaces Theory, no one had attempted to offer an explicitly enactive theory of concepts. UCST is set apart from its competitors in locating concepts not in the mind (or brain) of the conceptual agent nor in the affordances of the agent's environment but in the interaction between the two. On the UCST account, concepts are never truly static: conceptual knowledge is always in the process of being brought forth, such that neither agent nor environment can cleanly be separated from the other, and the preconceptual noumena cannot be reconstructed free of conceptual taint. Through such conceptual coloring, mind extends into the world. Concepts create binary distinctions - beginning, most importantly, with the self/non-self distinction - and discrete entities that mask what are, with respect to the conceptual framework, underlying continua. These distinctions - implying notions of e.g. internal and external, inner experience and outer world - are both conceptually necessary and, at the same time, lacking prior ontological status. They are meaningful only with respect to some identifiable observer (which could, in appropriate circumstances, be the organism itself). In consequence, phenomenology has a key role to play, and first-person methods are indispensable to any empirical investigation of concepts.
886	enactive	2013	Villalobos, M	Enactive cognitive science: revisionism or revolution?	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	The enactive approach is usually associated with a revolutionary project that aims to transform in a radical way our understanding of mind and cognition. Bold theoretical moves such as the rejection of cognitive representations or the assumption of a deep continuity between life and mind, among other enactive ideas, justify this perception. Nonetheless, when we assume a broader historical perspective, including the long cybernetic tradition that preceded the emergence of cognitive sciences, the image of the enactive approach looks different. Put in the context of the paradigmatic shift that took place between first-order and second-order cybernetics, especially in the case of Maturana's autopoietic theory, the enactive paradigm, so I will try to show in this work, appears rather like a conservative or revisionist project. Better said, it appears as a slightly hybrid paradigm, wherein original and progressive elements coexist with revisionist components. The paper aims to offer an alternative interpretation of the enactive approach and contribute to a better understanding of its identity as a research program, its present and its possible future challenges.
887	enactive	2013	Robbins, BD	Enactive Cognition and the Neurophenomenology of Emotion	NEUROPHENOMENOLOGY AND ITS APPLICATIONS TO PSYCHOLOGY	0
888	enactive	2012	Cuffari, E	Gestural sense-making: hand gestures as intersubjective linguistic enactments	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The ubiquitous human practice of spontaneously gesturing while speaking demonstrates the embodiment, embeddedness, and sociality of cognition. The present essay takes gestural practice to be a paradigmatic example of a more general claim: human cognition is social insofar as our embedded, intelligent, and interacting bodies select and construct meaning in a way that is intersubjectively constrained and defeasible. Spontaneous co-speech gesture is markedly interesting because it at once confirms embodied aspects of linguistic meaning-making that formalist and linguistic turn-type philosophical approaches fail to appreciate, and it also forefronts intersubjectivity as an inherent and inherently normative dimension of communicative action. Co-speech hand gestures, as linguistically meaningful speech acts, demonstrate both sedimentation and spontaneity (in the sense of Maurice Merleau-Ponty's dialectic of linguistic expression (2002)), or features of convention and nonconvention in a Gricean sense (1989). Yet neither pragmatic nor classic phenomenological approaches to communication can accommodate the practice of co-speech hand gesturing without some rehabilitation and reorientation. Pragmatic criteria of intersubjectivity, normativity, and rationality need to confront the non-propositional and nonverbal meaning-making of embodied encounters. Phenomenological treatments of expression and intersubjectivity must consider the normative nature of high-order social practices like language use. Reciprocally critical exchanges between these traditions and gesture studies yield an improved philosophy that treats language as a multi-modal medium for collaborative meaning achievement. The proper paradigm for these discussions is found in enactive approaches to social cognition. Co-speech hand gestures are first and foremost emergent elements of social interaction, not the external whirring of an isolated internal consciousness. In contrast to current literature that frequently presents gestures as uncontrollable bodily upsurge or infallible imagistic phenomenon that drives and dances with verbal or "linguistic" convention (McNeill 1992, 2005), I suggest that we study gestures as dynamic, embodied, and shared tools for collaborative sense-making.
889	enactive	2011	Levy, AJ	Neurobiology and the Therapeutic Action of Psychoanalytic Play Therapy with Children	CLINICAL SOCIAL WORK JOURNAL	This paper presents neurobiological aspects of the therapeutic action of psychoanalytic play therapy. The author contends that play integrates diverse modes of neural processing because of its inherently enactive and verbal nature. Admixtures of new and familiar self/other configurations emerge, simultaneously shaping and fostering integration of procedural and declarative modes of experience. Complex self-other configurations develop in play therapy because of its intrinsic integration of multiple experiential modes. The paper includes an illustration of play treatment with a boy who presented with a disorganized attachment pattern, an attendant deficit in affect regulation, and who manifested frank psychotic symptomatology.
890	enactive	2011	Teske, JA	EXTERNALISM, RELATIONAL SELVES, AND REDEMPTIVE RELATIONSHIPS	ZYGON	P>The dangerous level of individuality in contemporary Western culture is informed by a conception of mind, self, and soul as internal to the central nervous system. The historical development of this view has produced a bounded and self-contained individual at odds with communal life. Happily, scientific and philosophical studies of mind are coming to view the human mind as embodied, enactive, encultured, and embedded in social and technical networks, and as a construction not limited to the boundaries of the individual organism. Mental phenomena are hybrids of events in the head and events in the world to which they are often coupled, not least of which are with other people. There are mutual and reciprocal implications of this externalism for a number of religious themes. Our understanding of redemption might better be bound to our relationships with others, including our bodies and our sexuality, rather than to a private, individual relationship with the sacred.
891	enactive	2010	Slors, M	Neural resonance: Between implicit simulation and social perception	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Shaun Gallagher and Dan Zahavi have recently argued against a simulationist interpretation of neural resonance. Recognizing intentions and emotions in the facial expressions and gestures of others may be subserved by e.g. mirror neuron activity, but this does not mean that we first experience an intention or emotion and then project it onto the other. Mirror neurons subserve social cognition, according to Gallagher and Zahavi, by being integral parts of processes of enactive social perception. I argue that the notion of enactive social perception does not yet explain why social perception is subserved by mirroring. I also argue that this problem cannot be avoided by means of an appeal to multiple realization. Instead, I propose a holistic model of neural resonance-based social cognition that does give an explanatory role to mirroring by allowing for a partial experiential overlap between experiencing and recognizing emotions and intentions. This account avoids the simulationist step-wise conception of social cognition and recognizes the qualitative difference between first- and third-person emotion and intention attribution. It does capture too much of the simulationist intuitions, however, to warrant the label 'social perception'.
892	enactive	2007	Krueger, T	Design and prosthetic perception	KYBERNETES	Purpose - The paper aims to consider competing accounts of perception and to examine their potential to support design activity that seeks to extend and enrich perception using interface technologies. The interfaces will enable the direct perception of electromagnetic phenomena that are not now considered to be directly available to humans. Design/methodology/approach - Two models are considered. According to one, the standard view, perception is of an external world known by means of information flowing into an organism from it as conditioned by the organism's biological sensory modalities; according to the other, the enactive view, perception occurs by means of learning to differentiate oneself from the world by undertaking activities, by learning and mastering sensorimotor contingencies. Findings - The paper presents preliminary results of design work based on enactive cognition and argues that the results, in turn, re-inform and reinforce the theory by the introduction of novel perceptual phenomena that cannot be accommodated within the standard view of perception. Practical implications - The project, rather than seeking an instrumental utility, though this may occur, instead strives to enable the bringing forth of a richer world. Its objective is epistemic rather than pragmatic. Originality/value - The paper presents a reflection on the role of design in the construction of theory.
893	enactive	2007	Vernon, D; Furlong, D	Philosophical Foundations of AI	50 YEARS OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE: ESSAYS DEDICATED TO THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	Artificial Intelligence was born in 1956 as the off-spring of the newly-created cognitivist paradigm of cognition. As such, it inherited a strong philosophical legacy of functionalism, dualism, and positivism. This legacy found its strongest statement some 20 years later in the physical symbol systems hypothesis, a conjecture that deeply influenced the evolution of AI in subsequent years. Recent history has seen a swing away from the functionalism of classical AI toward an alternative position that re-asserts the primacy of embodiment, development, interaction, and, more recently, emotion in cognitive systems, focussing now more than ever on enactive models of cognition. Arguably, this swing represents a true paradigm shift in our thinking. However, the philosophical foundations of these approaches - phenomenology - entail some far-reaching ontological and epistemological commitments regarding the nature of a cognitive system, its reality, and the role of its interaction with its environment. The goal of this paper is to draw out the full philosophical implications of the phenomenological position that underpins the current paradigm shift towards enactive cognition.
894	enactive	2005	Bishop, JM; Nasuto, JS	Second-order cybernetics and enactive perception	KYBERNETES	Purpose - To present an account of cognition integrating second-order cybernetics (SOC) together with enactive perception and dynamic systems theory. Design/methodology/approach - The paper presents a brief critique of classical models of cognition then outlines how integration of SOC, enactive perception and dynamic systems theory can overcome some weaknesses of the classical paradigm. Findings - Presents the critique of evolutionary robotics showing how the issues of teleology and autonomy are left unresolved by this paradigm although their solution fits within the proposed framework. Research limitations/implications - The paper highlights the importance of genuine autonomy in the development of artificial cognitive systems. It sets out a framework within which the robofic research of cognitive systems could succeed. Practical implications - There are no immediate practical implications but see research implications. Originality/value - It joins the discussion on the fundamental nature of cognitive systems and emphasise the importance of autonomy and embodiment.
895	enactive	2016	Garcia, AM; Ibanez, A	A touch with words: Dynamic synergies between manual actions and language	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	Manual actions are a hallmark of humanness. Their underlying neural circuitry gives rise to species specific skills and interacts with language processes. In particular, multiple studies show that hand-related expressions - verbal units evoking manual activity - variously affect concurrent manual actions, yielding apparently controversial results (interference, facilitation, or null effects) in varied time windows. Through a systematic review of 108 experiments, we show that such effects are driven by several factors, such as the level of verbal processing, action complexity, and the time-lag between linguistic and motor processes. We reconcile key empirical patterns by introducing the Hand-Action-Network Dynamic Language Embodiment (HANDLE) model, an integrative framework based on neural coupling dynamics and predictive-coding principles. To conclude, we assess HANDLE against the backdrop of other action-cognition theories, illustrate its potential applications to understand high-level deficits in motor disorders, and discuss key challenges for further development. In sum, our work aligns with the 'pragmatic turn', moving away from passive and static representationalist perspectives to a more dynamic, enactive, and embodied conceptualization of cognitive processes. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
896	enactive	2016	Iliopoulos, A	The material dimensions of signification: Rethinking the nature and emergence of semiosis in the debate on human origins	QUATERNARY INTERNATIONAL	The nature and emergence of "symbolic" material culture has long been at the forefront of the debate on modern human origins. For most evolutionary archaeologists, material signs are arbitrary artefacts that were produced by predefined brainbound representations. In reducing, however, material signification to linguistic terms, and attributing its creation to a representational mechanism, the "symbolic" paradigm commits a pair of serious category mistakes. For one, the significative meaning of material culture is not entirely arbitrary, because concepts can actually be founded on physical properties and affordances. Moreover, material signification is not the epiphenomenal product of innate cognitive modules, for the mind is not a computational device that processes internal representations before externalising them through behaviour. In this paper, I suggest that these theoretical fallacies about the nature and emergence of material signification can be overcome by combining a pragmatic semiotic theory with an enactive theory of cognition. Briefly put, a pragmatic semiotic theory describes the nature of material signification by recognising that significative concepts can be founded on physical qualities and relations, whereas an enactive theory of cognition accounts for the emergence of material signification by explaining how significative concepts are brought forth through the constitutive entwinement of mind and matter. Through the synergistic fusion of these theoretical tenets, the origins of material signification can be examined from an ontological perspective that treats the generation of significative meaning as the emergent product of material engagement. In its light, the preoccupation of most evolutionary archaeologists with the notion of "modernity" appears to be inherently problematic. It is therefore ultimately proposed that the dominant symbolic interpretation of material signification need be replaced with a pragmatic and enactive theory of cognitive semiotics that is suitably geared to trace the evolution of prehistoric material signs. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd and INQUA. All rights reserved.
897	enactive	2015	Gallagher, S; Lindgren, R	Enactive Metaphors: Learning Through Full-Body Engagement	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	Building on both cognitive semantics and enactivist approaches to cognition, we explore the concept of enactive metaphor and its implications for learning. Enactive approaches to cognition involve the idea that online sensory-motor and affective processes shape the way the perceiver-thinker experiences the world and interacts with others. Specifically, we argue for an approach to learning through whole-body engagement in a way that employs enactive metaphors. We summarize recent empirical studies that show enactive metaphors and whole-body involvement in virtual and mixed reality environments support and improve learning.
898	enactive	2015	Parvan, A	Patients' substantialization of disease, the hybrid symptom and metaphysical care	JOURNAL OF EVALUATION IN CLINICAL PRACTICE	In the context of current scholarship concerned with facilitating integration between the biomedical and the patient-centred models of care, the article suggests that disease brings about an ontological disruption in patients, which is not directly addressed in either model, and may interfere with treatment and therapy outcomes if not met with a type of care termed here as metaphysical'. The receipt of diagnosis and medical care can give patients the sense that they are ontologically diminished, or less of a human, and along with physicians' approaches to and discourses about disease, may prompt them to seek ontological restoration or security in the same way as psychologically traumatized patients sometimes do: by treating the disease and/or the experience of harm associated with it as a thing that exists per se. I call this substantialization' of disease (or harm) and draw on Augustine's theory of non-substantial deficiencies (physiological and moral) and on Plato's and Plotinus's different takes on such defects in order to discuss what substantialization can do for patients. Based on literature that examines patients' ways of talking about and living with their disease, I speculate that substantialization can generate a hybrid symptom', consisting in patterns of exercising agency which may predispose to non-adherence. Ways in which physicians could provide metaphysical care are proposed, along with an understanding of chronic patients as hybrid ontological and agentic units, which draws on theories of enactive cognition. I opine that metaphysical care may facilitate integration between the depersonalized and personalized models of care.
899	enactive	2015	Kimmel, M; Irran, C; Luger, MA	Bodywork as systemic and inter-enactive competence: participatory process management in Feldenkrais (R) Method and Zen Shiatsu	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Feldenkrais and Shiatsu enable somatic learning through continuous tactile coupling, a real-time interpersonal dynamic unfolding in a safe dyadic sphere. The first part of our micro-ethnographic study draws on process vignettes and subjective theories to demonstrate how bodywork is infused with systemic sensitivities and awareness for non-linear process management. Expressed in dynamic systems parlance, both disciplines foster metastability, adaptivity, and self-organization in the client's somatopersonal system by progressively reconfiguring systemic dispositions, i.e., an attractor landscape. Doing so requires a keen embodied apperception of hierarchies of somatosystemic order. Bodyworkers learn to explore these in their eigenfunction (joints, muscles, fascia), discriminate coordinative organization in small ensembles, and monitor large-scale dynamic interplay. The practitioner's "extended body" reaching forth into the client's through a resonance loop eventually becomes part of this. Within a bodywork session, practitioners modulate this hierarchical functional architecture. Their ability for sensorially staying apace of systemic emergence allows them to respond to minute changes and customize reactions in a zone of proximal development (dynamic immediacy). They stimulate the client's system with a mix of perturbing and stabilizing interventions that oscillate between eigenfunctions and their coordinative integration. Practical knowledge for "soft-assembling" non-linear synergies is crucial for this (cumulative local effects, high-level functions "slaving" the system, etc.). The paper's second part inventorizes the bodyworker's operative tool-box micro-skills providing the wherewithal for context-intelligent intervention. Practitioners deploy "educated senses" and a repertoire of hands-on techniques (grips, stretches, etc.) against a backdrop of somatic habits (proper posture, muscle activation, gaze patterns, etc.). At this level, our study addresses a host of micro-skills through the lens of enactive cognitive science.
900	enactive	2015	Wiltshire, TJ; Lobato, EJC; McConnell, DS; Fiore, SM	Prospects for direct social perception: a multi-theoretical integration to further the science of social cognition	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	In this paper we suggest that differing approaches to the science of social cognition mirror the arguments between radical embodied and traditional approaches to cognition. We contrast the use in social cognition of theoretical inference and mental simulation mechanisms with approaches emphasizing a direct perception of others' mental states. We build from a recent integrative framework unifying these divergent perspectives through the use of dual process theory and supporting social neuroscience research. Our elaboration considers two complementary notions of direct perception: one primarily stemming from ecological psychology and the other from enactive cognition theory. We use this as the foundation from which to offer an account of the informational basis for social information and assert a set of research propositions to further the science of social cognition. In doing so, we point out how perception of the minds of others can be supported in some cases by lawful information, supporting direct perception of social affordances and perhaps, mental states, and in other cases by cues that support indirect perceptual inference. Our goal is to extend accounts of social cognition by integrating advances across disciplines to provide a multi level and multi theoretic description that can advance this field and offer a means through which to reconcile radical embodied and traditional approaches to cognitive neuroscience.
901	symbolic	2004	Anderson, JR; Bothell, D; Byrne, MD; Douglass, S; Lebiere, C; Qin, YL	An integrated theory of the mind	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Adaptive control of thought-rational (ACT-R; J. R. Anderson & C. Lebiere, 1998) has evolved into a theory that consists of multiple modules but also explains how these modules are integrated to produce coherent cognition. The perceptual-motor modules, the goal module, and the declarative memory module are presented as examples of specialized systems in ACT-R. These modules are associated with distinct cortical regions. These modules place chunks in buffers where they can be detected by a production system that responds to patterns of information in the buffers. At any point in time, a single production rule is selected to respond to the current pattern. Subsymbolic processes serve to guide the selection of rules to fire as well as the internal operations of: some modules. Much of learning involves tuning of these subsymbolic processes. A number of simple and complex empirical examples are described to illustrate how these modules function singly and in concert.
902	symbolic	1996	Anderson, JR	ACT - A simple theory of complex cognition	AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST	In the Adaptive Character of Thought (ACT-R) theory, complex cognition arises from an interaction of procedural and declarative knowledge. Procedural knowledge is represented in units called production rules, and declarative knowledge is represented in units called chunks. The individual units are created by simple encodings of objects in the environment (chunks) or simple encodings of transformations in the environment (production rules). A great many such knowledge units underlie human cognition. From this large database, the appropriate units are selected for a particular context by activation processes that are tuned to the statistical structure of the environment. According to the ACT-R theory, the power of human cognition depends on the amount of knowledge encoded and the effective Employment of the encoded knowledge.
903	symbolic	2005	Schooler, LJ; Hertwig, R	How forgetting aids heuristic inference	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Some theorists, ranging from W. James (1890) to contemporary psychologists, have argued that forgetting is the key to proper functioning of memory. The authors elaborate on the notion of beneficial forgetting by proposing that loss of information aids inference heuristics that exploit mnemonic information. To this end, the authors bring together 2 research programs that take an ecological approach to studying cognition. Specifically, they implement fast and frugal heuristics within the ACT-R cognitive architecture. Simulations of the recognition heuristic, which relies on systematic failures of recognition to infer which of 2 objects scores higher on a criterion value, demonstrate that forgetting can boost accuracy by increasing the chances that only I object is recognized. Simulations of the fluency heuristic, which arrives at the same inference on the basis of the speed with which objects are recognized, indicate that forgetting aids the discrimination between the objects' recognition speeds.
904	symbolic	1997	Anderson, JR; Matessa, M; Lebiere, C	ACT-R: A theory of higher level cognition and its relation to visual attention	HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	The ACT-R system is a general system for modeling a wide range of higher level cognitive processes. Recently, it has been embellished with a theory of how its higher level processes interact with a visual interface. This includes a theory of how visual attention can move acre ss the screen, encoding information into a form that can be processed by ACT-R. This system is applied to modeling several classic phenomena in the literature that depend on the speed and selectivity with which visual attention can move across a visual display. ACT-R is capable of interacting with the same computer screens that subjects do and, as such, is well suited to provide a model for tasks involving human-computer interaction. In this article, we discuss a demonstration of ACT-R's application to menu selection and show that the ACT-R theory makes unique predictions, without estimating any parameters, about the time to search a menu. These predictions are confirmed.
905	symbolic	2006	Gray, WD; Sims, CR; Fu, WT; Schoelles, MJ	The soft constraints hypothesis: A rational analysis approach to resource allocation for interactive behavior	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Soft constraints hypothesis (SCH) is a rational analysis approach that holds that the mixture of perceptual-motor and cognitive resources allocated for interactive behavior is adjusted based on temporal cost-benefit tradeoffs. Alternative approaches maintain that cognitive resources are in some sense protected or conserved in that greater amounts of perceptual-motor effort will be expended to conserve lesser amounts of cognitive effort. One alternative, the minimum memory hypothesis (MMH), holds that people favor strategies that minimize the use of memory. SCH is compared with MMH across 3 experiments and with predictions of an Ideal Performer Model that uses ACT-R's memory system in a reinforcement learning approach that maximizes expected utility by minimizing time. Model and data support the SCH view of resource allocation; at the under 1000-ms level of analysis, mixtures of cognitive and perceptual-motor resources are adjusted based on their cost-benefit tradeoffs for interactive behavior.
906	symbolic	2001	Byrne, MD; Anderson, JR	Serial modules in parallel: The psychological refractory period and perfect time-sharing	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The authors describe ACT-R/perceptual-motor (ACT-R/PM), an integrated theory of cognition, perception, and action that consists of the ACT-R production system and a set of perceptual-motor modules. Each module (including cognition) is essentially serial, but modules run in parallel with one another. ACT-R/PM can model simple dual tasks such as the psychological refractory period (PRP), including subtle results previously explained with executive process interactive control (EPIC, D. E. Meyer & D. E. Kieras, 1997a). The central difference between the theories is that EPIC's productions can fire in parallel, whereas in ACT-R/PM, they are serial. Results from three PRP-like experiments with more demanding cognitive requirements indicate that cognitive processing for the 2 tasks need not overlap. ACT-R's activation-based retrieval processes are critical in accounting for the timing of these tasks and for explaining the dual-task performance decrement.
907	symbolic	2011	Marewski, JN; Schooler, LJ	Cognitive Niches: An Ecological Model of Strategy Selection	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	How do people select among different strategies to accomplish a given task? Across disciplines, the strategy selection problem represents a major challenge. We propose a quantitative model that predicts how selection emerges through the interplay among strategies, cognitive capacities, and the environment. This interplay carves out for each strategy a cognitive niche, that is, a limited number of situations in which the strategy can be applied, simplifying strategy selection. To illustrate our proposal, we consider selection in the context of 2 theories: the simple heuristics framework and the ACT-R (adaptive control of thought-rational) architecture of cognition. From the heuristics framework, we adopt the thesis that people make decisions by selecting from a repertoire of simple decision strategies that exploit regularities in the environment and draw on cognitive capacities, such as memory and time perception. ACT-R provides a quantitative theory of how these capacities adapt to the environment. In 14 simulations and 10 experiments, we consider the choice between strategies that operate on the accessibility of memories and those that depend on elaborate knowledge about the world. Based on Internet statistics, our model quantitatively predicts people's familiarity with and knowledge of real-world objects, the distributional characteristics of the associated speed of memory retrieval, and the cognitive niches of classic decision strategies, including those of the fluency, recognition, integration, lexicographic, and sequential-sampling heuristics. In doing so, the model specifies when people will be able to apply different strategies and how accurate, fast, and effortless people's decisions will be.
908	symbolic	2007	Taatgen, NA; van Rijn, H; Anderson, J	An integrated theory of prospective time interval estimation: The role of cognition, attention, and learning	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A theory of prospective time perception is introduced and incorporated as a module in an integrated theory of cognition, thereby extending existing theories and allowing predictions about attention and learning. First, a time perception module is established by fitting existing datasets (interval estimation and bisection and impact of secondary tasks on attention). The authors subsequently used the module as a part of the adaptive control of thought-rational (ACT-R) architecture to model a new experiment that combines attention, learning, dual tasking, and time perception. Finally, the model predicts time estimation, learning, and attention in a new experiment. The model predictions and fits demonstrate that the proposed integrated theory of prospective time interval estimation explains detailed effects of attention and learning during time interval estimation.
909	symbolic	2003	Anderson, JR; Lebiere, C	The Newell Test for a theory of cognition	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Newell (1980; 1990) proposed that cognitive theories be developed in an effort to satisfy multiple criteria and to avoid theoretical myopia. He provided two overlapping lists of 13 criteria that the human cognitive architecture would have to satisfy in order to be functional. We have distilled these into 12 criteria: flexible behavior, real-time performance, adaptive behavior, vast knowledge base, dynamic behavior, knowledge integration, natural language, learning, development, evolution, and brain realization. There would be greater theoretical progress if we evaluated theories by a broad set of criteria such as these and attended to the weaknesses such evaluations revealed. To illustrate how theories can be evaluated we apply these criteria to both classical connectionism (McClelland Rumelhart 1986; Rumelhart & McClelland 1986b) and the ACT-R theory (Anderson & Lebiere 1998). The strengths of classical connectionism on this test derive from its intense effort in addressing empirical phenomena in such domains as language and cognitive development. Its weaknesses derive from its failure to acknowledge a symbolic level to thought. In contrast, ACT-R includes both symbolic and subsymbolic components. The strengths of the ACT-R theory derive from its tight integration of the symbolic component with the subsymbolic component. Its weaknesses largely derive from its failure, as yet, to adequately engage in intensive analyses of issues related to certain criteria on Newell's list.
910	symbolic	2008	Anderson, JR; Fincham, JM; Qin, Y; Stocco, A	A central circuit of the mind	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The methodologies of cognitive architectures and functional magnetic resonance imaging can mutually inform each other. For example, four modules of the ACT-R (adaptive control of thought - rational) cognitive architecture have been associated with four brain regions that are active in complex tasks. Activity in a lateral inferior prefrontal region reflects retrieval of information in a declarative module; activity in a posterior parietal region reflects changes to problem representations in an imaginal module; activity in the anterior cingulate cortex reflects the updates of control information in a goal module; and activity in the caudate nucleus reflects execution of productions in a procedural module. Differential patterns of activation in such central regions can reveal the time course of different components of complex cognition.
911	symbolic	2006	Fu, WT; Gray, WD	Suboptimal tradeoffs in information seeking	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Explicit information-seeking actions are needed to evaluate alternative actions in problem-solving tasks. Information-seeking costs are often traded of against the utility of information. We present three experiments that show how subjects adapt to the cost and information structures of environments in a map-navigation task. We found that subjects often stabilize at suboptimal levels of performance. A Bayesian satisficing model (BSM) is proposed and implemented in the ACT-R architecture to predict information-seeking behavior. The BSM uses a local decision rule and a global Bayesian learning mechanism to decide when to stop seeking information. The model matched the human data well, suggesting that adaptation to cost and information structures can be achieved by a simple local decision rule. The local decision rule, however, often limits exploration of the environment and leads to suboptimal performance. We propose that suboptimal performance is an emergent property of the dynamic interactions between cognition and the environment. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
912	symbolic	2008	Gigerenzer, G; Hoffrage, U; Goldstein, DG	Fast and frugal heuristics are plausible models of cognition: Reply to Dougherty, Franco-Watkins, and Thomas (2008)	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	M. R. Dougherty, A. M. Franco-Watkins, and R. Thomas (2008) conjectured that fast and frugal heuristics need an automatic frequency counter for ordering cues. In fact, only a few heuristics order cues, and these orderings can arise from evolutionary, social, or individual learning, none of which requires automatic frequency counting. The idea that cue validities cannot be computed because memory does not encode missing information is misinformed; it implies that measures of co-occurrence are incomputable and would invalidate most theories of cue learning. They also questioned the recognition heuristic's psychological plausibility on the basis of their belief that it has not been implemented in a memory model, although it actually has been implemented in ACT-R (L. J. Schooler & R. Hertwig, 2005). On the positive side, M. R. Dougherty et al. discovered a new mechanism for a less-is-more effect. The authors of the present article specify minimal criteria for psychological plausibility, describe some genuine challenges in the study of heuristics, and conclude that fast and frugal heuristics are psychologically plausible: They use limited search and are tractable and robust.
913	symbolic	2010	Borst, JP; Taatgen, NA; van Rijn, H	The Problem State: A Cognitive Bottleneck in Multitasking	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	The main challenge for theories of multitasking is to predict when and how tasks interfere. He re, we focus on interference related to the problem state. a directly accessible intermediate representation of the current state of a task. On the basis of Salvucci and Taatgen's (2008) threaded cognition theory, we predict interference if 2 or more tasks require a problem state but not when only, one task requires one. This prediction was tested in a series of 3 experiments. In Experiment 1, it Subtraction task and it text entry task had to be carried out concurrently. Both tasks were presented in 2 versions: one that required maintaining it problem state and one that did not. A significant overadditive interaction effect wits observed, showing that the interference between tasks was maximal when both tasks required a problem state. The other 2 experiments tested whether the interference wits indeed due to a problem state bottleneck, instead of cognitive load (Experiment 2: an alternative Subtraction and text entry experiment) or a phonological loop bottleneck (Experiment 3: a triple-task experiment that added phonological processing). Both experiments supported the problem state hypothesis. To account for the observed behavior, computational cognitive models were developed using, threaded cognition within the context of the cognitive architecture ACT-R (Anderson, 2007). The models confirm that it problem state bottleneck can explain the observed interference.
914	symbolic	1999	Just, MA; Carpenter, PA; Varma, S	Computational modeling of high-level cognition and brain function	HUMAN BRAIN MAPPING	This article describes a computational modeling architecture, 4CAPS, which is consistent with key properties of cortical function and makes good contact with functional neuroimaging results. Like earlier cognitive models such as SOAR, ACT-R, 3CAPS, and EPIC, the proposed cognitive model is implemented in a computer simulation that predicts observable variables such as human response times and error patterns. In addition, the proposed 4CAPS model accounts for the functional decomposition of the cognitive system and predicts fMRI activation levels and their localization within specific cortical regions, by incorporating key properties of cortical function into the design of the modeling system. (C) 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
915	symbolic	2007	Anderson, JR; Qin, YL; Jung, KJ; Carter, CS	Information-processing modules and their relative modality specificity	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	This research uses fMRI to understand the role of eight cortical regions in a relatively complex information-processing task. Modality of input (Visual versus auditory) and modality of output (manual versus vocal) are manipulated. Two perceptual regions (auditory cortex and fusiform gyrus) only reflected perceptual encoding. Two motor regions were involved in information rehearsal as well as programming of overt actions. Two cortical regions (parietal and prefrontal) performed processing (retrieval and representational change) independent of input and output modality. The final two regions (anterior cingulate and caudate) were involved in control of cognition independent of modality of input or output and content of the material. An information-processing model, based on the ACT-R theory, is described that predicts the BOLD response in these regions. Different modules in the theory vary in the degree to which they are modality-specific and the degree to which they are involved in central versus peripheral cognitive processes. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
916	symbolic	2005	Anderson, JR; Albert, MV; Fincham, JM	Tracing problem solving in real time: fMRI analysis of the subject-paced tower of Hanoi	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Previous research has found three brain regions for tracking components of the ACT-R cognitive architecture: a posterior parietal region that tracks changes in problem representation, a prefrontal region that tracks retrieval of task-relevant information, and a motor region that tracks the programming of manual responses. This prior research has used relatively simple tasks to incorporate a slow event-related procedure, allowing the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) response to go back to baseline after each trial. The research described here attempts to extend these methods to tracking problem solving in a complex task, the Tower of Hanoi, which involves many complex steps of cognition and motor actions in rapid succession. By tracking the activation patterns in these regions, it is possible to predict with intermediate accuracy when participants are planning a future sequence of moves. The article describes a cognitive model in the ACT-R architecture that is capable of explaining both the latency data in move generation and the BOLD responses in these three regions.
917	symbolic	2009	Salvucci, DD; Taatgen, NA; Borst, JP	Toward a Unified Theory of the Multitasking Continuum: From Concurrent Performance to Task Switching, Interruption, and Resumption	CHI2009: PROCEEDINGS OF THE 27TH ANNUAL CHI CONFERENCE ON HUMAN FACTORS IN COMPUTING SYSTEMS, VOLS 1-4	Multitasking in user behavior can be represented along a continuum in terms of the time spent on one task before switching to another. In this paper, we present a theory of behavior along the multitasking continuum, from concurrent tasks with rapid switching to sequential tasks with longer time between switching. Our theory unifies several theoretical effects - the ACT-R cognitive architecture, the threaded cognition theory of concurrent multitasking, and the memory-for-goals theory of interruption and resumption to better understand and predict multitasking behavior. We outline the theory and discuss how it accounts for numerous phenomena in the recent empirical literature.
918	symbolic	2009	Gunzelmann, G; Gross, JB; Gluck, KA; Dinges, DF	Sleep Deprivation and Sustained Attention Performance: Integrating Mathematical and Cognitive Modeling	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	A long history of research has revealed many neurophysiological changes and concomitant behavioral impacts of sleep deprivation, sleep restriction, and circadian rhythms. Little research, however, has been conducted in the area of computational cognitive modeling to understand the information processing mechanisms through which neurobehavioral factors operate to produce degradations in human performance. Our approach to understanding this relationship is to link predictions of overall cognitive functioning, or alertness, from existing biomathematical models to information processing parameters in a cognitive architecture, leveraging the strengths from each to develop a more comprehensive explanation. The integration of these methodologies is used to account for changes in human performance on a sustained attention task across 88 h of total sleep deprivation. The integrated model captures changes due to time awake and circadian rhythms, and it also provides an account for underlying changes in the cognitive processes that give rise to those effects. The results show the potential for developing mechanistic accounts of how fatigue impacts cognition, and they illustrate the increased explanatory power that is possible by combining theoretical insights from multiple methodologies.
919	symbolic	2008	Anderson, JR; Carter, CS; Fincham, JM; Qin, Y; Ravizza, SM; Rosenberg-Lee, M	Using fMRI to Test Models of Complex Cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article investigates the potential of fMRI to test assumptions about different components in models of complex cognitive tasks. If the components of a model can be associated with specific brain regions, one can make predictions for the temporal course of the BOLD response in these regions. An event-locked procedure is described for dealing with temporal variability and bringing model runs and individual data trials into alignment. Statistical methods for testing the model are described that deal with the scan-to-scan correlations in the errors of measurement of the BOLD signal. This approach is illustrated using a sacrificial ACT-R model that involves mapping 6 modules onto 6 brain regions in an experiment from Ravizza, Anderson, and Carter (in press) concerned with equation solving. The model's visual encoding predicted the BOLD response in the fusiform gyrus, its controlled retrieval predicted the BOLD response in the lateral inferior prefrontal cortex, and its subgoal setting predicted the BOLD response in the anterior cingulate cortex. On the other hand, its motor programming failed to predict anticipatory activation in the motor cortex, its representational changes failed to predicted the pattern of activity in the posterior parietal cortex, and its procedural component failed to predict an initial spike in caudate. The results illustrate the power of such data to direct the development of a theory of complex problem solving, both at the level of a specific task model as well as at the level of the cognitive architecture.
920	symbolic	2008	Stocco, A; Anderson, JR	Endogenous control and task representation: An fMRI study in algebraic problem-solving	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	The roles of prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices have been widely studied, yet little is known on how they interact to enable complex cognitive abilities. We investigated this issue in a complex yet well-defined symbolic paradigm: algebraic problem solving. In our experimental problems, the demands for retrieving arithmetic facts and maintaining intermediate problem representations were manipulated separately. An analysis of functional brain images acquired while participants were solving the problems confirmed that prefrontal regions were affected by the retrieval of arithmetic facts, but only scarcely by the need to manipulate intermediate forms of the equations, hinting at a specific role in memory retrieval. Hemodynamic activity in the dorsal cingulate, on the contrary, increased monotonically as more information processing steps had to be taken, independent of their nature. This pattern was essentially mimicked in the caudate nucleus, suggesting a related functional role in the control of cognitive actions. We also implemented a computational model within the Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) cognitive architecture, which was able to reproduce both the behavioral data and the time course of the hemodynamic activity in a number of relevant regions of interest. Therefore, imaging results and computer simulation provide evidence that symbolic cognition can be explained by the functional interaction of medial structures supporting control and serial execution, and prefrontal cortices engaged in the on-line retrieval of specific relevant information.
921	symbolic	2009	Rosenberg-Lee, M; Lovett, MC; Anderson, JR	Neural correlates of arithmetic calculation strategies	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	Recent research into math cognition has identified areas of the brain that are involved in number processing (Dehaene, Piazza, Pinel, & Cohen, 2003) and complex problem solving (Anderson, 2007). Much of this research assumes that participants use a single strategy; yet, behavioral research finds that people use a variety of strategies (LeFevre et al., 1996; Siegler, 1987; Siegler & Lemaire, 1997). In the present study, we examined cortical activation as a function of two different calculation strategies for mentally solving multidigit multiplication problems. The school strategy, equivalent to long multiplication, involves working from right to left. The expert strategy, used by "lightning" mental calculators (Staszewski, 1988), proceeds from left to right. The two strategies require essentially the same calculations, but have different working memory demands (the school strategy incurs greater demands). The school strategy produced significantly greater early activity in areas involved in attentional aspects of number processing (posterior superior parietal lobule, PSPL) and mental representation (posterior parietal cortex, PPC), but not in a numerical magnitude area (horizontal intraparietal sulcus, HIPS) or a semantic memory retrieval area (lateral inferior prefrontal cortex, LIPFC). An ACT-R model of the task successfully predicted BOLD responses in PPC and LIPFC, as well as in PSPL and HIPS.
922	symbolic	2011	Anderson, JR; Betts, S; Ferris, JL; Fincham, JM	Cognitive and metacognitive activity in mathematical problem solving: prefrontal and parietal patterns	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	Students were taught an algorithm for solving a new class of mathematical problems. Occasionally in the sequence of problems, they encountered exception problems that required that they extend the algorithm. Regular and exception problems were associated with different patterns of brain activation. Some regions showed a Cognitive pattern of being active only until the problem was solved and no difference between regular or exception problems. Other regions showed a Metacognitive pattern of greater activity for exception problems and activity that extended into the post-solution period, particularly when an error was made. The Cognitive regions included some of parietal and prefrontal regions associated with the triple-code theory of (Dehaene, S., Piazza, M., Pinel, P., & Cohen, L. (2003). Three parietal circuits for number processing. Cognitive Neuropsychology, 20, 487-506) and associated with algebra equation solving in the ACT-R theory (Anderson, J. R. (2005). Human symbol manipulation within an 911 integrated cognitive architecture. Cognitive science, 29, 313-342. Metacognitive regions included the superior prefrontal gyrus, the angular gyrus of the triple-code theory, and frontopolar regions.
923	symbolic	2000	Matessa, M; Anderson, JR	Modelling focused learning in role assignment	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	ACT-R is a general theory of cognition (Anderson, 1993; Anderson & Lebiere, 1998) which is capable of learning the relative usefulness of alternative rules. In this paper, a model utilising this implicit procedural learning mechanism is described which explains results from a concept formation task created by McDonald and MacWhinney (1991), a role assignment task for artificial languages created by Blackwell (1995), and a new role assignment experiment, By focusing learning on one cue of role assignment at a time, the model predicts a blocking phenomenon where certain cues can dominate and partially block the learning of other cues. In all of the experiments, subjects' trial-by-trial use of cues is better predicted by the ACT-R model than by a pure learning-on-error model that learns all cues simultaneously.
924	symbolic	2005	St Amant, R; Freed, AR; Ritter, FE	Specifying ACT-R models of user interaction with a GOMS language	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	We describe a system, G2A, that produces ACT-R models from GOMS models. The GOMS models can contain hierarchical methods, visual and memory stores, and control constructs. G2A allows ACT-R models to be built much more quickly, in hours rather than weeks. Because GOMS is a more abstract formalism than ACT-R, most GOMS operators can be plausibly translated in different ways into ACT-R productions (e.g., a GOMS Look-for operator can be carried out by different visual search strategies in ACT-R). Given a GOMS model, G2A generates and evaluates alternative ACT-R models by systematically varying the mapping of GOMS operators to ACT-R productions. In experiments with a text editing task, G2A produces ACT-R models whose predictions are within 5% of GOMS model predictions. In the same domain, G2A also generates ACT-R models that give better predictions than GOMS, providing good predictions of overall task duration for actual users (within 2%), though the models are less accurate at a detailed level. In a separate experiment with a mouse-driven telephone dialing task, G2A produces models that do a better job of distinguishing between competing interfaces than a Fitts' law model or an ACT-R model built by hand. G2A starts to describe the relationship between two major theories of cognition. This may have appeared a simple relationship, but the complexity of the translation illustrates why this was not done before. G2A shows a way forward for cognitive models, that of higher level languages that compile into more detailed specifications. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
925	symbolic	2007	van Maanen, L; van Rijn, H	An accumulator model of semantic interference	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	To explain latency effects in picture-word interference tasks, cognitive models need to account for both interference and stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) effects. As opposed to most models of picture-word interference, which model the time course during the task in a ballistic manner, the RACE model (retrieval by accumulating evidence) presented in this paper accounts for semantic interference during the interval between the retrieval onset and the actual retrieval. RACE is implemented as an extension to the ACT-R architecture of cognition. By modeling the retrieval process, RACE offers a more precise account of semantic memory retrieval latencies in different interference and SOA conditions than other ACT-R models. In this paper, we discuss the architectural assumptions underlying RACE and simulations of a picture-word interference experiment [Glaser, W. R., & Dungelhoff. F. J. (1984). The time course of picture-word interference.Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 10( 5), pp. 640 - 654.]. (C) 2007 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
926	symbolic	2003	Kelley, TD	Symbolic and sub-symbolic representations in computational models of human cognition - What can be learned from biology?	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	The debate over symbolic versus sub-symbolic representations of human cognition has been continuing for thirty years, with little indication of a resolution. The argument is this: Does the human cognitive system use symbols as a representation of knowledge, and does it process symbols and their respective constituents? Or does the human cognitive system use a distributed representation of knowledge, and is it somehow capable of processing this distributed representation of knowledge in a complex and meaningful way? This paper argues for an integrated symbolic and sub-symbolic approach to the representation of cognition. The lines of reasoning used as evidence to bolster this argument for an integrated approach are the cognitive architecture the Adaptive Character of Thought-Rational (ACT-R), and biology, where it is argued that symbolic and sub-symbolic representations of cognition are part of an intellectual continuum, with sub-symbolic representations at the low end and symbolic representations at the higher end.
927	symbolic	1997	Lovett, MC; Reder, LM; Lebiere, C	Modeling individual differences in a digit working memory task	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NINETEENTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	Individual differences in working memory are an important source of information for refining theories of memory and cognition. Computational modeling is an effective tool for studying individual differences because it allows researchers to maintain the basic structure of a theory while perturbing a particular component. This paper presents a computational model for a digit working memory task and demonstrates that varying a single parameter captures individual differences in that task. The model is developed within the framework of the ACT-R theory (Anderson, 1993), and the continuous parameter manipulated represents attentional capacity for the current goal.
928	symbolic	2009	Kennedy, WG; Bugajska, MD; Harrison, AM; Trafton, JG	"Like-Me" Simulation as an Effective and Cognitively Plausible Basis for Social Robotics	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SOCIAL ROBOTICS	We present a successful design approach for social robotics based on a computational cognitive architecture and mental simulation. We discuss an approach to a Theory of Mind known as a "like-me" simulation in which the agent uses its own knowledge and capabilities as a model of another agent to predict that agent's actions. We present three examples of a "like-me" mental simulation in a social context implemented in the embodied version of the Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) cognitive architecture, ACT-R/E (for ACT-R Embodied). Our examples show the efficacy of a simulation approach in modeling perspective taking (identifying another's left or right hand), teamwork (simulating a teammate for better team performance), and dominant-submissive social behavior (primate social experiments). We conclude with a discussion of the cognitive plausibility of this approach and our conclusions.
929	symbolic	2014	Liang, PP; Jia, XQ; Taatgen, NA; Zhong, N; Li, KC	Different strategies in solving series completion inductive reasoning problems: An fMRI and computational study	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PSYCHOPHYSIOLOGY	Neural correlate of human inductive reasoning process is still unclear. Number series and letter series completion are two typical inductive reasoning tasks, and with a common core component of rule induction. Previous studies have demonstrated that different strategies are adopted in number series and letter series completion tasks; even the underlying rules are identical. In the present study, we examined cortical activation as a function of two different reasoning strategies for solving series completion tasks. The retrieval strategy, used in number series completion tasks, involves direct retrieving of arithmetic knowledge to get the relations between items. The procedural strategy, used in letter series completion tasks, requires counting a certain number of times to detect the relations linking two items. The two strategies require essentially the equivalent cognitive processes, but have different working memory demands (the procedural strategy incurs greater demands). The procedural strategy produced significant greater activity in areas involved in memory retrieval (dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, DLPFC) and mental representation/maintenance (posterior parietal cortex, PPC). An ACT-R model of the tasks successfully predicted behavioral performance and BOLD responses. The present findings support a general-purpose dual-process theory of inductive reasoning regarding the cognitive architecture. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
930	symbolic	2011	Salvucci, DD; Taatgen, NA	Toward a Unified View of Cognitive Control	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Allen <link rid="b10">Newell (1973) once observed that psychology researchers were playing "twenty questions with nature," carving up human cognition into hundreds of individual phenomena but shying away from the difficult task of integrating these phenomena with unifying theories. We argue that research on cognitive control has followed a similar path, and that the best approach toward unifying theories of cognitive control is that proposed by Newell, namely developing theories in computational cognitive architectures. Threaded cognition, a recent theory developed within the ACT-R cognitive architecture, offers promise as a unifying theory of cognitive control that addresses multitasking phenomena for both laboratory and applied task domains.
931	symbolic	2007	Stewart, TC; West, RL	Deconstructing and reconstructing ACT-R: Exploring the architectural space	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Evaluating variations in the structure of computational models of cognition is as important as evaluating variations in the numerical parameters of such models. However, computational models tend not to be organized in such a way as to directly support such research. To address this need, we have taken the well-known cognitive architecture ACT-R, reduced it to its fundamental components, and reconstructed it. Our new system, Python ACT-R, facilitates exploration of the space of possible models and architectures based on the core ACT-R theory. The result has enabled us to examine the possibility of using basic ACT-R components such as the declarative memory system in new ways; for example, as the basis for a new visual attention system. Python ACT-R allows the same model de. nition syntax to be used to de. ne both ACT-R models and new ACT-R components, as well as making explicit the processes speci. fied by the ACT-R theory. (C) 2007 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
932	symbolic	2007	Gunzelmann, G; Lyon, DR	Mechanisms for human spatial competence	SPATIAL COGNITION V: REASONING, ACTION, INTERACTION	Research spanning decades has generated a long list of phenomena associated with human spatial information processing. Additionally, a number of theories have been proposed about the representation, organization and processing of spatial information by humans. This paper presents a broad account of human spatial competence, integrated with the ACT-R cognitive architecture. Using a cognitive architecture grounds the research in a validated theory of human cognition, enhancing the plausibility of the overall account. This work posits a close link of aspects of spatial information processing to vision and motor planning, and integrates theoretical perspectives that have been proposed over the history of research in this area. In addition, the account is supported by evidence from neuropsychological investigations of human spatial ability. The mechanisms provide a means of accounting for a broad range of phenomena described in the experimental literature.
933	symbolic	2015	Hoffrage, U; Marewski, JN	Unveiling the Lady in Black: Modeling and aiding intuition	JOURNAL OF APPLIED RESEARCH IN MEMORY AND COGNITION	The cognitive and decision science literature on modeling and aiding intuitions in organizations is rich, but segregated. This special issue offers a sample of that literature, stimulating exchange and inspiring intuitions about intuition. A total of 16 articles bring together diverse approaches, such as naturalistic-decision-making, heuristics-and-biases, dual-processes, ACT-R, CLARION, Brunswikian, and Quantum-Probability-Theory, many of them co-authored by their founders. The articles cover computational models and verbal theories; experimental and observational work; laboratory and naturalistic research. Comprising various domains, such as consulting, investment, law, police, and morality, the articles relate intuition to implicit cognition, emotions, scope insensitivity, expertise, and representative experimental design. In this article, we map intuition across poles such as Enlightenment/Romanticism, reason/emotion, objectivity/subjectivity, inferences/qualia, Taylorism/universal scholarship, System 2/System 1, dichotomies/dialectics, and science/art. We discuss intuitions as inspirations, instincts, inferences, and insights. Finally, we review the contributions to this special issue, placing them into historical, philosophical, and societal contexts. (C) 2015 Society for Applied Research in Memory and Cognition. Published by Elsevier Inc. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
934	symbolic	2015	Borst, JP; Nijboer, M; Taatgen, NA; van Rijn, H; Anderson, JR	Using Data-Driven Model-Brain Mappings to Constrain Formal Models of Cognition	PLOS ONE	In this paper we propose a method to create data-driven mappings from components of cognitive models to brain regions. Cognitive models are notoriously hard to evaluate, especially based on behavioral measures alone. Neuroimaging data can provide additional constraints, but this requires a mapping from model components to brain regions. Although such mappings can be based on the experience of the modeler or on a reading of the literature, a formal method is preferred to prevent researcher-based biases. In this paper we used model-based fMRI analysis to create a data-driven model-brain mapping for five modules of the ACT-R cognitive architecture. We then validated this mapping by applying it to two new datasets with associated models. The new mapping was at least as powerful as an existing mapping that was based on the literature, and indicated where the models were supported by the data and where they have to be improved. We conclude that data-driven model-brain mappings can provide strong constraints on cognitive models, and that model-based fMRI is a suitable way to create such mappings.
935	symbolic	2012	Wintermute, S; Betts, S; Ferris, JL; Fincham, JM; Anderson, JR	Brain Networks Supporting Execution of Mathematical Skills versus Acquisition of New Mathematical Competence	PLOS ONE	This fMRI study examines how students extend their mathematical competence. Students solved a set of algebra-like problems. These problems included Regular Problems that have a known solution technique and Exception Problems that but did not have a known technique. Two distinct networks of activity were uncovered. There was a Cognitive Network that was mainly active during the solution of problems and showed little difference between Regular Problems and Exception Problems. There was also a Metacognitive Network that was more engaged during a reflection period after the solution and was much more engaged for Exception Problems than Regular Problems. The Cognitive Network overlaps with prefrontal and parietal regions identified in the ACT-R theory of algebra problem solving and regions identified in the triple-code theory as involved in basic mathematical cognition. The Metacognitive Network included angular gyrus, middle temporal gyrus, and anterior prefrontal regions. This network is mainly engaged by the need to modify the solution procedure and not by the difficulty of the problem. Only the Metacognitive Network decreased with practice on the Exception Problems. Activity in the Cognitive Network during the solution of an Exception Problem predicted both success on that problem and future mastery. Activity in the angular gyrus and middle temporal gyrus during feedback on errors predicted future mastery.
936	symbolic	2011	Trafton, JG; Harrison, AM	Embodied Spatial Cognition	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We present a spatial system called Specialized Egocentrically Coordinated Spaces embedded in an embodied cognitive architecture (ACT-R Embodied). We show how the spatial system works by modeling two different developmental findings: gaze-following and Level 1 perspective taking. The gaze-following model is based on an experiment by Corkum and Moore (1998), whereas the Level 1 visual perspective-taking model is based on an experiment by Moll and Tomasello (2006). The models run on an embodied robotic system.
937	symbolic	2011	Modi, S; Tiwari, MK; Lin, YZ; Zhang, WJ	On the architecture of a human-centered CAD agent system	COMPUTER-AIDED DESIGN	With an increasing role of computers in the design process, a strong foundation of the basic principles for building CAD systems is extremely necessary. This work describes the architecture of a CAD system from the perspective of the capabilities required to build a human centered CAD system. These capabilities have been reported as task-sharing, communication, transparency, design rationale and cognition. Existing systems for engineering design have been analyzed from the perspective of these capabilities and an agent-based system previously reported in literature has been extended to a new architecture to support three of the aforementioned capabilities. The proposed architecture is an amalgamation of multi-agent systems, the ACT-R cognitive architecture and fuzzy rule based Petri nets. The salient advantage of this architecture is that it focuses on the capabilities of design rationale, transparency and cognition together something which has been missing from all the current works in literature and is unique to the domain of application of the software system, which in this case is engineering design. The other capabilities namely task sharing and communication can be incorporated from lessons learnt from human-computer interaction research. The effectiveness of the proposed architecture is demonstrated by a hypothetical design case along with its implementation. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
938	symbolic	2008	Gunzelmann, G	Strategy generalization across orientation tasks: Testing a computational cognitive model	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Humans use their spatial information processing abilities flexibly to facilitate problem solving and decision making in a variety of tasks. This article explores the question of whether a general strategy can be adapted for performing two different spatial orientation tasks by testing the predictions of a computational cognitive model. Human performance was measured on an orientation task requiring participants to identify the location of a target either on a map (find-on-map) or within an egocentric view of a space (find-in-scene). A general strategy instantiated in a computational cognitive model of the find-on-map task, based on the results from Gunzelmann and Anderson (2006), was adapted to perform both tasks and used to generate performance predictions for a new study. The qualitative fit of the model to the human data supports the view that participants were able to tailor a general strategy to the requirements of particular spatial tasks. The quantitative differences between the predictions of the model and the performance of human participants in the new experiment expose individual differences in sample populations. The model provides a means of accounting for those differences and a framework for understanding how human spatial abilities are applied to naturalistic spatial tasks that involve reasoning with maps.
939	symbolic	2013	Borst, JP; Buwalda, TA; van Rijn, H; Taatgen, NA	Avoiding the problem state bottleneck by strategic use of the environment	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	We investigated whether environmental support can be used to circumvent the problem state bottleneck in human multitasking. Previously, it was shown that people can only maintain a single chunk of information in their problem state resource, the central part of working memory. Consequently, when the problem state resource was required by multiple tasks concurrently, performance decreased. This phenomenon was termed the problem state bottleneck. To investigate whether the environment can be used to circumvent this bottleneck, we conducted an experiment with two main conditions. In the No-Support condition we replicated an earlier experiment that indicated the existence of the problem state bottleneck. In the Support condition we presented external cues, reducing the load on the problem state resource. To support the results of the experiment we present a computational cognitive model. The experiment and model indicated that the problem state bottleneck can be avoided by using external cues. However, subjects only used external cues when this led to faster behavior. These results were interpreted in the light of the Soft Constraints Hypothesis, which states that humans always follow the fastest strategy possible, as opposed to the most accurate strategy. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
940	symbolic	2013	Dancy, CL	ACT-R Phi: A cognitive architecture with physiology and affect	BIOLOGICALLY INSPIRED COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURES	Current computational cognitive architectures lack a comprehensive representation of human physiology. Connecting a more realistic model of physiology to a cognitive architecture allows one to develop more realistic computational process models that include an account for the effect of physiology on cognition. It is also useful to include some theory of affect and emotion to act as a functional layer between some representations of physiology and cognition. We chose to extend the ACT-R (adaptive control of thought - rational) cognitive architecture with physiology and affect to make the ACT-R Phi hybrid architecture. We connected the Hum Mod physiological simulation system with the ACT-R architecture; ACT-R Phi has a module that communicates between ACT-R and Hum Mod. A new affect system was also developed using an existing theoretical framework to serve as a functional layer between some of the physiological and cognitive representations. With this new architecture one can model a wide range of human behavior (e.g., the effects of homeostasis on cognition) in a more tractable fashion. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
941	symbolic	2010	Ball, J; Myers, C; Heiberg, A; Cooke, NJ; Matessa, M; Freiman, M; Rodgers, S	The synthetic teammate project	COMPUTATIONAL AND MATHEMATICAL ORGANIZATION THEORY	The main objective of the Synthetic Teammate project is to develop language and task enabled synthetic agents capable of being integrated into team training simulations. To achieve this goal, the agents must be able to closely match human behavior. The initial application for the synthetic teammate research is creation of an agent able to perform the functions of a pilot for an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) simulation as part of a three-person team. The agent, or synthetic teammate, is being developed in the ACT-R cognitive architecture. The major components include: language comprehension and generation, dialog management, agent-environment interaction, and situation assessment. Initial empirical results suggest that the agent-environment interaction is a good approximation to human behavior in the UAV environment, and we are planning further empirical tests of the synthetic teammate operating with human teammates. This paper covers the project's modeling approach, challenges faced, progress made toward an integrated synthetic teammate, and lessons learned during development.
942	symbolic	2009	Robbins, B; Carruth, D; Morais, A	Bridging the Gap between HCI and DHM: The Modeling of Spatial Awareness within a Cognitive Architecture	DIGITAL HUMAN MODELING, PROCEEDINGS	In Multiple investigations of human performance on natural tasks in three-dimensional (3D) environments, we have found that a sense of space is necessary for accurate modeling of human perception and motor planning. In previous work, we developed ACT-R/DHM, a modification of the ACT-R cognitive architecture with specific extensions for integration with 3D environments. ACT-R/DHM could leverage existing extensions from the ACTR community that implement the spatial sense, but current research seems to indicate that an "egocentric-first" approach is most appropriate. We describe the implementation of a custom spatial module in ACT-R/DHM, which allows for the consideration of spatial locations by adding a single ACT-R module that performs a very small set of operations on existing location information. We demonstrate the use of the 3D, egocentric-first spatial module to simulate a machine interaction task.
943	symbolic	2004	Wu, CX; Liu, YL	Modeling psychological refractory period (PRP) and piractice effect on PRP with queuing networks and reinforcement learning algorithms	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE MODELING	PRP (Psychological Refractory Period) is a basic but important form of human information processing in dual-task situations. This article describes a queuing network model of PRP that successfully modeled PRP without the need of setting up complex lock/unlock performance strategies employed in the EPIC model of PRP or drawing complex scheduling charts employed in the ACT-R/PM model of PRP. Further, by integrating queuing networks with reinforcement learning algorithms, the queuing network model successfully simulated practice effect on PRP, which has not been modeled in existing PRP models. The current research indicates that depending on an individual's degree of practice, cognition can be either serial or parallel at the level of production or response selection. Extensions of queuing network model in modeling other tasks and its easiness in modeling concurrent tasks in practice are also discussed.
944	symbolic	2015	Thomson, R; Lebiere, C; Anderson, JR; Staszewski, J	A general instance-based learning framework for studying intuitive decision-making in a cognitive architecture	JOURNAL OF APPLIED RESEARCH IN MEMORY AND COGNITION	Cognitive architectures (e.g., ACT-R) have not traditionally been used to understand intuitive decision-making; instead, models tend to be designed with the intuitions of their modelers already hardcoded in the decision process. This is due in part to a fuzzy boundary between automatic and deliberative processes within the architecture. We argue that instance-based learning satisfies the conditions for intuitive decision-making described in Kahneman and Klein (2009), separates automatic from deliberative processes, and provides a general mechanism for the study of intuitive decision-making. To better understand the role of the environment in decision-making, we describe biases as arising from three sources: the mechanisms and limitations of the human cognitive architecture, the information structure in the task environment, and the use of heuristics and strategies to adapt performance to the dual constraints of cognition and environment. A unified decision-making model performing multiple complex reasoning tasks is described according to this framework. (C) 2014 Society for Applied Research in Memory and Cognition. Published by Elsevier Inc. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
945	symbolic	2011	Fu, WT	A Dynamic Context Model of Interactive Behavior	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	A dynamic context model of interactive behavior was developed to explain results from two experiments that tested the effects of interaction costs on encoding strategies, cognitive representations, and response selection processes in a decision-making and a judgment task. The model assumes that the dynamic context defined by the mixes of internal and external representations and processes are sensitive to the interaction cost imposed by the task environment. The model predicts that changes in the dynamic context may lead to systematic biases in cognitive representations and processes that eventually influence decision-making and judgment outcomes. Consistent with the predictions by the model, results from the experiments showed that as interaction costs increased, encoding strategies and cognitive representations shifted from perception-based to memory-based. Memory-based comparisons of the stimuli enhanced the similarity and dominance effects, and led to stronger systematic biases in response outcomes in a choice task. However, in a judgment task, memory-based representations enhanced only the dominance effects. Results suggested that systematic response biases in the dominance context were caused by biases in the cognitive representations of the stimuli, but response biases in the similarity context were caused by biases in the comparison process induced by the choice task. Results suggest that changes in interaction costs not only change whether information was assessed from the external world or from memory but also introduce systematic biases in the cognitive representation of the information, which act as biased inputs to the subsequent decision-making and judgment processes. Results are consistent with the idea of interactive cognition, which proposes that representations and processes are contingent on the dynamic context defined by the information flow between the external task environment and internal cognition.
946	symbolic	2016	Donnarumma, F; Maisto, D; Pezzulo, G	Problem Solving as Probabilistic Inference with Subgoaling: Explaining Human Successes and Pitfalls in the Tower of Hanoi	PLOS COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY	How do humans and other animals face novel problems for which predefined solutions are not available? Human problem solving links to flexible reasoning and inference rather than to slow trial-and-error learning. It has received considerable attention since the early days of cognitive science, giving rise to well known cognitive architectures such as SOAR and ACT-R, but its computational and brain mechanisms remain incompletely known. Furthermore, it is still unclear whether problem solving is a "specialized" domain or module of cognition, in the sense that it requires computations that are fundamentally different from those supporting perception and action systems. Here we advance a novel view of human problem solving as probabilistic inference with subgoaling. In this perspective, key insights from cognitive architectures are retained such as the importance of using subgoals to split problems into subproblems. However, here the underlying computations use probabilistic inference methods analogous to those that are increasingly popular in the study of perception and action systems. To test our model we focus on the widely used Tower of Hanoi (ToH) task, and show that our proposed method can reproduce characteristic idiosyncrasies of human problem solvers: their sensitivity to the "community structure" of the ToH and their difficulties in executing so-called "counterintuitive" movements. Our analysis reveals that subgoals have two key roles in probabilistic inference and problem solving. First, prior beliefs on (likely) useful subgoals carve the problem space and define an implicit metric for the problem at hand-a metric to which humans are sensitive. Second, subgoals are used as waypoints in the probabilistic problem solving inference and permit to find effective solutions that, when unavailable, lead to problem solving deficits. Our study thus suggests that a probabilistic inference scheme enhanced with subgoals provides a comprehensive framework to study problem solving and its deficits.
947	symbolic	2011	Cassenti, DN; Kerick, SE; McDowell, K	Observing and modeling cognitive events through event-related potentials and ACT-R	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	The study of cognition is generally thought to rely on techniques for inferring cognitive processes that are unobservable. One approach to cognitive science is to leverage an understanding of structure and function of the nervous system based on observable neurological events to determine mental processing. Event-related potential (ERP) research offers one technique to objectively measure cortical responses that are believed to be associated with perceptual and cognitive processes. Here, two ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought - Rational) models of mental processing are adapted based on the results of two ERP experiments. The models provide both a sequence of mental steps required to complete each task and a greater specificity of time course of mental events than traditional ACTR models. We conclude with implications of this research for cognitive theory and ACT-R as well as future work to be conducted. Published by Elsevier B.V.
948	symbolic	2008	Weaver, R	Parameters, Predictions, and Evidence in Computational Modeling: A Statistical View Informed by ACT-R	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Model validation in computational cognitive psychology often relies on methods drawn from the testing of theories in experimental physics. However, applications of these methods to computational models in typical cognitive experiments can hide multiple, plausible sources of variation arising from human participants and from stochastic cognitive theories, encouraging a model fixed, data variable paradigm that makes it difficult to interpret model predictions and to account for individual differences. This article proposes a likelihood-based, data fixed, model variable paradigm in which models are treated as stochastic processes in experiments with participant-to-participant variation that can be applied to a broad range of mechanistic cognitive architectures. This article discusses the implementation and implications of this view in model validation, with a concrete focus on a simple class of ACT-R models of cognition. This article is not intended as a recipe for broad application of these preliminary, proof-of-concept methods, but as a framework for communication between statisticians searching for interesting problems in the cognitive modeling sphere, and cognitive modelers interested in generalizing from deterministic to stochastic model validation, in the face of random variation in human experimental data.
949	symbolic	2012	Trafton, G; Jacobs, A; Harrison, AM	Building and Verifying a Predictive Model of Interruption Resumption	PROCEEDINGS OF THE IEEE	We built and evaluated a predictive model for resuming after an interruption. Two different experiments were run. The first experiment showed that people used a transactive memory process, relying on another person to keep track of where they were after being interrupted while retelling a story. A memory for goals model was built using the ACT-R/E cognitive architecture that matched the cognitive and behavioral aspects of the experiment. In a second experiment, the memory for goals model was put on an embodied robot that listened to a story being told. When the human storyteller attempted to resume the story after an interruption, the robot used the memory for goals model to determine if the person had forgotten the last thing that was said. If the model predicted that the person was having trouble remembering the last thing said, the robot offered a suggestion on where to resume. Signal detection analyses showed that the model accurately predicted when the person needed help.
950	symbolic	2011	Kim, SY	A Model of Political Judgment: An Agent-Based Simulation of Candidate Evaluation	JASSS-THE JOURNAL OF ARTIFICIAL SOCIETIES AND SOCIAL SIMULATION	This paper advances Kim, Taber, and Lodge's work (2010). It is shown here that the psychological model of political judgment named John Q. Public (Kim, Taber, and Lodge 2010) is consistent with a set of well-known empirical regularities repeatedly found in electoral and psychological researches, that the model in general implies motivated reasoning - discounting contradictory information to the prior while accepting consistent information more or less at its face value - under general conditions, and that (prior) evaluative affect towards candidates plays a fundamental role in this process. It is also discussed the implication of motivated reasoning in accounting for the responsiveness, persistence, and polarization of candidate evaluation often observed in elections.
951	symbolic	2001	Botvinick, MM; Braver, TS; Barch, DM; Carter, CS; Cohen, JD	Conflict monitoring and cognitive control	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A neglected question regarding cognitive control is how control processes might detect situations calling for their involvement. The authors propose here that the demand for control may be evaluated in part by monitoring for conflicts in information processing. This hypothesis is supported by data concerning the anterior cingulate cortex, a brain area involved in cognitive control, which also appears to respond to the occurrence of conflict. The present article reports two computational modeling studies, serving to articulate the conflict monitoring hypothesis and examine its implications. The first study tests the sufficiency of the hypothesis to account for brain activation data, applying a measure of conflict to existing models of tasks shown to engage the anterior cingulate. The second study implements a feedback loop connecting conflict monitoring to cognitive control, using this to simulate a number of important behavioral phenomena.
952	symbolic	1994	PASCUALMARQUI, RD; MICHEL, CM; LEHMANN, D	LOW-RESOLUTION ELECTROMAGNETIC TOMOGRAPHY - A NEW METHOD FOR LOCALIZING ELECTRICAL-ACTIVITY IN THE BRAIN	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PSYCHOPHYSIOLOGY	This paper presents a new method for localizing the electric activity in the brain based on multichannel surface EEG recordings. In contrast to the models presented up to now the new method does not assume a limited number of dipolar point sources nor a distribution on a given known surface, but directly computes a current distribution throughout the full brain volume. In order to find a unique solution for the 3-dimensional distribution among the infinite set of different possible solutions, the method assumes that neighboring neurons are simultaneously and synchronously activated. This basic assumption rests on evidence from single cell recordings in the brain that demonstrates strong synchronization of adjacent neurons. In view of this physiological consideration the computational task is to select the smoothest of all possible 3-dimensional current distributions, a task that is a common procedure in generalized signal processing. The result is a true 3-dimensional tomography with the characteristic that localization is preserved with a certain amount of dispersion, i.e., it has a relatively low spatial resolution. The new method, which we call Low Resolution Electromagnetic Tomography (LORETA) is illustrated with two different sets of evoked potential data, the first showing the tomography of the P100 component to checkerboard stimulation of the left, right, upper and lower hemiretina, and the second showing the results for the auditory N100 component and the two cognitive components CNV and P300. A direct comparison of the tomography results with those obtained from fitting one and two dipoles illustrates that the new method provides physiologically meaningful results while dipolar solutions fail in many situations. In the case of the cognitive components, the method offers new hypotheses on the location of higher cognitive functions in the brain.
953	symbolic	2000	Stanovich, KE; West, RF	Individual differences in reasoning: Implications for the rationality debate?	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Much research in the last two decades has demonstrated that human responses deviate from the performance deemed normative according to various models of decision making and rational judgment (e.g., the basic axioms of utility theory). This gap between the normative and the descriptive can be interpreted as indicating systematic irrationalities in human cognition. However, four alternative interpretations preserve the assumption that human behavior and cognition is largely, rational. These posit that the gap is due to (1) performance errors, (2) computational limitations, (3) the wrong norm being applied by the experimenter, and (4) a different construal of the task by the subject. In the debates about the liability of these alternative explanations, attention has been focused too narrowly, on the modal response. In a series of experiments involving most of the classic tasks in the heuristics and biases literature, we have examined the implications of individual differences in performance for each of the four explanations of the normative/descriptive gap. Performance errors are a minor factor in the gap; computational limitations underlie non-normative responding on several tasks, particularly those that involve some type of cognitive decontextualization. Unexpected patterns of covariance can suggest when the wrong norm is being applied to a task or when an alternative construal of the task should be considered appropriate.
954	symbolic	1996	Gigerenzer, G; Goldstein, DG	Reasoning the fast and frugal way: Models of bounded rationality	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Humans and animals make inferences about the world under limited time and knowledge. In contrast, many models of rational inference treat the mind as a Laplacean Demon, equipped with unlimited time, knowledge, and computational might. Following H. Simon's notion of satisficing, the authors have proposed a family of algorithms based on a simple psychological mechanism: one-reason decision making. These fast and frugal algorithms violate fundamental tenets of classical rationality: They neither look up nor integrate all information. By computer simulation, the authors held a competition between the satisficing ''Take The Best'' algorithm and various ''rational'' inference procedures(e.g., multiple regression). The Take The Best algorithm matched or outperformed all competitors in inferential speed and accuracy. This result is an existence proof that cognitive mechanisms capable of successful performance in the real world do not need to satisfy the classical norms of rational inference.
955	symbolic	1997	Meyer, DE; Kieras, DE	A computational theory of executive cognitive processes and multiple-task performance .1. Basic mechanisms	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A new theoretical framework, executive-process interactive control (EPIC),is introduced for characterizing human performance of concurrent perceptual-motor and cognitive tasks. On the basis of EPIC, computational models may be formulated to simulate multiple-task performance under a variety of circumstances. These models account well for reaction-time data from representative situations such as the psychological refractory-period procedure. EPIC's goodness of fit supports several key conclusions: (a) At a cognitive level, people can apply distinct sets of production rules simultaneously for executing the procedures of multiple tasks; (b) people's capacity to process information at ''peripheral'' perceptual-motor levels is limited; (c) to cope with such Limits and to satisfy task priorities, flexible scheduling strategies are used; and (d) these strategies are mediated by executive cognitive processes that coordinate concurrent tasks adaptively.
956	symbolic	1992	GALLISTEL, CR; GELMAN, R	PREVERBAL AND VERBAL COUNTING AND COMPUTATION	COGNITION	We describe the preverbal system of counting and arithmetic reasoning revealed by experiments on numerical representations in animals. In this system, numerosities are represented by magnitudes, which are rapidly but inaccurately generated by the Meck and Church (1983) preverbal counting mechanism. We suggest the following. (1) The preverbal counting mechanism is the source of the implicit principles that guide the acquisition of verbal counting. (2) The preverbal system of arithmetic computation provides the framework for the assimilation of the verbal system. (3) Learning to count involves, in part, learning a mapping from the preverbal numerical magnitudes to the verbal and written number symbols and the inverse mappings from these symbols to the preverbal magnitudes. (4) Subitizing is the use of the preverbal counting process and the mapping from the resulting magnitudes to number words in order to generate rapidly the number words for small numerosities. (5) The retrieval of the number facts, which plays a central role in verbal computation, is mediated via the inverse mappings from verbal and written numbers to the preverbal magnitudes and the use of these magnitudes to find the appropriate cells in tabular arrangements of the answers. (6) This model of the fact retrieval process accounts for the salient features of the reaction time differences and error patterns revealed by experiments on mental arithmetic. (7) The application of verbal and written computational algorithms goes on in parallel with, and is to some extent guided by, preverbal computations, both in the child and in the adult.
957	symbolic	2003	Nieuwenhuis, S; Yeung, N; van den Wildenberg, W; Ridderinkhof, KR	Electrophysiological correlates of anterior cingulate function in a go/no-go task: Effects of response conflict and trial type frequency	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	Neuroimaging and computational modeling studies have led to the suggestion that response conflict monitoring by the anterior cingulate cortex plays a key role in cognitive control. For example, response conflict is high when a response must be with held (no-go) in contexts in which there is a prepotent tendency to make an overt (go) response. An event-related brain potential (ERP) component, the N2, is more pronounced on no-go than on go trials and was previously thought to reflect the need to inhibit the go response. However, the N2 may instead reflect the high degree of response conflict on no-go trials. If so, an N2 should also be apparent when subjects make a go response in conditions in which no-go events are more common. To test this hypothesis, we collected high-density ERP data from subjects performing a go/no-go task, in which the relative frequency of go versus no-go stimuli was varied. Consistent with our hypothesis, an N2 was apparent on both go and no-go trials and showed the properties expected of an ERP measure of conflict detection on correct trials: (1) It was enhanced for low-frequency stimuli, irrespective of whether these stimuli were associated with generating or suppressing a response, and (2) it was localized to the anterior cingulate cortex. This suggests that previous conceptions of the no-go N2 as indexing response inhibition may be in need of revision. Instead, the results are consistent with the view that the N2 in go/no-go tasks reflects conflict arising from competition between the execution and the inhibition of a single response.
958	symbolic	2001	Rubinstein, JS; Meyer, DE; Evans, JE	Executive control of cognitive processes in task switching	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	In 4 experiments, participants alternated between different tasks or performed the same task repeatedly. The tasks for 2 of the experiments required responding to geometric objects in terms of alternative classification rules, and the tasks for the other 2 experiments required solving arithmetic problems in terms of alternative numerical operations. Performance was measured as a function of whether the tasks were familiar or unfamiliar, the rules were simple or complex, and visual cues were present or absent about which tasks should be performed. Task alternation yielded switching-time costs that increased with rule complexity but decreased with task cuing. These factor effects were additive, supporting a model of executive control that has goal-shifting and rule-activation stages for task switching. It appears that rule activation takes more time for switching from familiar to unfamiliar tasks than for switching in the opposite direction.
959	symbolic	1995	ANDERSON, MC; SPELLMAN, BA	ON THE STATUS OF INHIBITORY MECHANISMS IN COGNITION - MEMORY RETRIEVAL AS A MODEL CASE	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Theories of cognition frequently assume the existence of inhibitory mechanisms that deactivate mental representations. Justifying this assumption is difficult because cognitive effects thought to reflect inhibition can often be explained without recourse to inhibitory processes. This article addresses the uncertain status of cognitive inhibitory mechanisms, focusing on their function in memory retrieval. On the basis of a novel form of forgetting reported herein, it is shown that classical associative theories of interference are insufficient as accounts of forgetting and that inhibitory processes must be at work. It is argued that inhibitory processes are used to resolve computational problems of selection common to memory retrieval and selective attention and that retrieval is best regarded as conceptually focused selective attention.
960	symbolic	2006	Cools, R	Dopaminergic modulation of cognitive function-implications for L-DOPA treatment in Parkinson's disease	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	It is well recognised that patients with Parkinson's disease exhibit cognitive deficits, even in the earliest disease stages. Whereas, L-DOPA therapy in early Parkinson's disease is accepted to improve the motor symptoms, the effects on cognitive performance are more complex: both positive and negative effects have been observed. The purpose of the present article is to review the effects of L-DOPA medication in Parkinson's disease on cognitive functions in the broad domains of cognitive flexibility and working memory. The review places the effects in Parkinson's disease within a framework of evidence from studies with healthy human volunteers, rodents and non-human primates as well as computational modeling work. It is suggested that beneficial or detrimental effects of L-DOPA are observed depending on task demands and basal dopamine levels in distinct parts of the striatum. The study of the beneficial and detrimental cognitive effects of L-DOPA in Parkinson's disease has substantial implications for the understanding and treatment development of cognitive abnormalities in Parkinson's disease as well as normal health. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
961	symbolic	1997	Hummel, JE; Holyoak, KJ	Distributed representations of structure: A theory of analogical access and mapping	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	This article describes an integrated theory of analogical access and mapping, instantiated in a computational model called LISA (Learning and Inference with Schemas and Analogies). LISA represents predicates and objects as distributed patterns of activation that are dynamically bound into propositional structures, thereby achieving both the flexibility of a connectionist system and the structure sensitivity of a symbolic system. The model treats access and mapping as types of guided pattern classification, differing only in that mapping is augmented by a capacity to learn new correspondences. The resulting model simulates a wide range of empirical findings concerning human analogical access and mapping. LISA also has a number of inherent limitations, including capacity limits, that arise in human reasoning and suggests a specific computational account of these limitations. Extensions of this approach also account for analogical inference and schema induction.
962	symbolic	2001	Logan, GD; Gordon, RD	Executive control of visual attention in dual-task situations	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A theory of executive control is presented that proposes that executive processes control subordinate processes by manipulating their parameters, reconfiguring them to respond in accord with the current task set. It adopts C. Bundesen's (1990) theory of visual attention (TVA) and R. M. Nosofsky and T. J. Palmeri's (1997) exemplar-based random walk (EBRW) as the theory of subordinate processes. It assumes that a task set is a set of TVA and EBRW parameters sufficient to perform a task and that set switching involves changing those parameters. The theory solves 2 computational problems that emerge in dual-task situations: the binding problem and the serial order problem. It can perform dual tasks in series or in parallel but prefers the serial strategy because it is faster and it solves the binding problem naturally. The theory accounts for concurrence cost, set-switching cost, crosstalk between tasks, and the modulation of crosstalk by task set.
963	symbolic	2012	Miyake, A; Friedman, NP	The Nature and Organization of Individual Differences in Executive Functions: Four General Conclusions	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Executive functions (EFs)-a set of general-purpose control processes that regulate one's thoughts and behaviors-have become a popular research topic lately and have been studied in many subdisciplines of psychological science. This article summarizes the EF research that our group has conducted to understand the nature of individual differences in EFs and their cognitive and biological underpinnings. In the context of a new theoretical framework that we have been developing (the unity/diversity framework), we describe four general conclusions that have emerged. Specifically, we argue that individual differences in EFs, as measured with simple laboratory tasks, (a) show both unity and diversity (different EFs are correlated yet separable), (b) reflect substantial genetic contributions, (c) are related to various clinically and societally important phenomena, and (d) show some developmental stability.
964	symbolic	1998	Halford, GS; Wilson, WH; Phillips, S	Processing capacity defined by relational complexity: Implications for comparative, developmental, and cognitive psychology	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Working memory limits are best defined in terms of the complexity of the relations that can be processed in parallel. Complexity is defined as the number of related dimensions or sources of variation. A unary relation has one argument and one source of variation; its argument can be instantiated in only one way at a time. A binary relation has two arguments, two sources of variation, and two instantiations, and so on. Dimensionality is related to the number of chunks, because both attributes on dimensions and chunks are independent units of information of arbitrary size. Studies of working memory limits suggest that there is a soft limit corresponding to the parallel processing of one quaternary relation. More complex concepts are processed by "segmentation" or "conceptual chunking." In segmentation, tasks are broken into components that do not exceed processing capacity and can be processed serially. In conceptual chunking, representations are "collapsed" to reduce their dimensionality and hence their processing load, but at the cost of making some relational information inaccessible. Neural net models of relational representations show that relations with more arguments have a higher computational cost that coincides with experimental findings on higher processing loads in humans. Relational complexity is related to processing load in reasoning and sentence comprehension and can distinguish between the capacities of higher species. The complexity of relations processed by children increases with ape. Implications for neural net models and theories of cognition and cognitive development are discussed.
965	symbolic	2007	Botvinick, MM	Conflict monitoring and decision making: Reconciling two perspectives on anterior cingulate function	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	According to one influential account, the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) serves to monitor for conflicts in information processing. According to another influential account, the ACC monitors action outcomes and guides decision making. Both of these perspectives are supported by an abundance of data, making it untenable to reject one view in favor of the other. Instead, the apparent challenge is to discover how the two perspectives might fit together within a larger account. In the present article, we consider the prospects for such a reconciliation. Juxtaposing the conflict-monitoring and decision-making accounts suggests an extension of the conflict-monitoring theory, by which conflict would act as a teaching signal driving a form of avoidance learning. The effect of this mechanism would be to bias behavioral decision making toward cognitively efficient tasks and strategies. We discuss evidence favoring this proposal and present an initial computational model, which lays the foundation for further development.
966	symbolic	1994	KIRSH, D; MAGLIO, P	ON DISTINGUISHING EPISTEMIC FROM PRAGMATIC ACTION	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We present data and argument to show that in Tetris-a real-time, interactive video game-certain cognitive and perceptual problems are more quickly, easily, and reliably solved by performing actions in the world than by performing computational actions in the head alone.  We have found that some of the translations and rotations made by players of this video game are best understood as actions that use the world to improve cognition.  These actions are not used to implement a plan, or to implement a reaction; they are used to change the world in order to simplify the problem-solving task.  Thus, we distinguish pragmatic actions-actions performed to bring one physically closer to a goal-from epistemic actions-actions performed to uncover information that is hidden or hard to compute mentally. To illustrate the need for epistemic actions, we first develop a standard information-processing model of Tetris cognition and show that it cannot explain performance data from human players of the game-even when we relax the assumption of fully sequential processing.  Standard models disregard many actions taken by players because they appear unmotivated or superfluous.  However, we show that such actions are actually far from superfluous; they play a valuable role in improving human performance.  We argue that traditional accounts are limited because they regard action as having a single function:  to change the world.  By recognizing a second function of action-an epistemic function-we can explain many of the actions that a traditional model cannot.  Although our argument is supported by numerous examples specifically from Tetris, we outline how the new category of epistemic action can be incorporated into theories of action more generally.
967	symbolic	1997	Ballard, DH; Hayhoe, MM; Pook, PK; Rao, RPN	Deictic codes for the embodiment of cognition	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	To describe phenomena that occur at different time scales, computational models of the brain must incorporate different levels of abstraction. At time scales of approximately 1/3 of a second, orienting movements of the body play a crucial role in cognition and form a useful computational level - more abstract than that used to capture natural phenomena but less abstract than what is traditionally used to study high-level cognitive processes such as reasoning. At this "embodiment level," the constraints of the physical system determine the nature of cognitive operations. The key synergy is that at time scales of about 1/3 of a second, the natural sequentiality of body movements can be matched to the natural computational economies of sequential decision systems through a system of implicit reference called deictic in which pointing movements are used to bind objects in the world to cognitive programs. This target article focuses on how deictic bindings make it possible to perform natural tasks. Deictic computation provides a mechanism for representing the essential features that link external sensory data with internal cognitive programs and motor actions. One of the central features of cognition, working memory, can be related to moment-by-moment dispositions of body features such as eye movements and hand movements.
968	symbolic	1997	Quartz, SR; Sejnowski, TJ	The neural basis of cognitive development: A constructivist manifesto	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	How do minds emerge from developing brains? According to "neural constructivism," the representational features of cortex are built from the dynamic interaction between neural growth mechanisms and environmentally derived neural activity. Contrary to popular selectionist models that emphasize regressive mechanisms, the neurobiological evidence suggests that this growth is a progressive increase in the representational properties of cortex. The interaction between the environment and neural growth results in a flexible type of learning: "constructive learning" minimizes the need for prespecification in accordance with recent neurobiological evidence that the developing cerebral cortex is largely free of domain-specific structure. Instead, the representational properties of cortex are built by the nature of the problem domain confronting it. This uniquely powerful and general learning strategy undermines the central assumption of classical learnability theory, that the learning properties of a system can be deduced from a fixed computational architecture. Neural constructivism suggests that the evolutionary emergence of neocortex in mammals is a progression toward more flexible representational structures, in contrast to the popular view of cortical evolution as an increase in innate, specialized circuits. Human cortical postnatal development is also more extensive and protracted than generally supposed, suggesting that cortex has evolved so as to maximize the capacity of environmental structure to shape its structure and function through constructive learning.
969	symbolic	2009	Gigerenzer, G; Brighton, H	Homo Heuristicus: Why Biased Minds Make Better Inferences	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Heuristics are efficient cognitive processes that ignore information. In contrast to the widely held view that less processing reduces accuracy, the study of heuristics shows that less information, computation, and time can in fact improve accuracy. We review the major progress made so far: (a) the discovery of less-is-more effects; (b) the study of the ecological rationality of heuristics, which examines in which environments a given strategy succeeds or fails, and why; (c) an advancement from vague labels to computational models of heuristics; (d) the development of a systematic theory of heuristics that identifies their building blocks and the evolved capacities they exploit, and views the cognitive system as relying on an "adaptive toolbox;'' and (e) the development of an empirical methodology that accounts for individual differences, conducts competitive tests, and has provided evidence for people's adaptive use of heuristics. Homo heuristicus has a biased mind and ignores part of the available information, yet a biased mind can handle uncertainty more efficiently and robustly than an unbiased mind relying on more resource-intensive and general-purpose processing strategies.
970	symbolic	1992	RADEMACHER, J; GALABURDA, AM; KENNEDY, DN; FILIPEK, PA; CAVINESS, VS	HUMAN CEREBRAL-CORTEX - LOCALIZATION, PARCELLATION, AND MORPHOMETRY WITH MAGNETIC-RESONANCE-IMAGING	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	We describe a system of parcellation of the human brain that is based on the functional anatomy of the cerebral cortex and that is applied to the analysis of magnetic resonance images. This system is designed to support investigations of hemispheric asymmetries and quantitative lesion localization studies in cognitive neuroscience. The system of cortical subdivision is a neural systems oriented model that approximates subdivisions supported by previous architectonic and functional analyses. It is based primarily on boundaries determined by "limiting fissures." It is completed by a set of coronal planes, keyed to visible anatomic landmarks, which "close" the borders of the parcellation subdivisions. The method depends on computational reconstruction of the primary image data in multiple planes so as to allow the observed pattern of limiting fissures in a given brain to be digitized. In this presentation, the method is applied in order to define the surface anatomy of the cerebral hemispheres in a normal subject. Volumetric measurements of individual cortical regions are compared as hemispheric percentiles to areal percentiles derived from the analysis of Jouandet et al. (1989), a conceptually related though methodologically different approach. We specifically address the approach to the study of interhemispheric differences and interindividual variations in cortical anatomy.
971	symbolic	1997	Meyer, DE; Kieras, DE	A computational theory of executive cognitive processes and multiple-task performance .2. Accounts of psychological refractory-period phenomena	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Further simulations of human multiple-task performance have been conducted with computational models that are based on the executive-process interactive control (EPIC) architecture introduced by D. E. Meyer and D. E. Kieras (1997a). These models account well for patterns of reaction times and psychological refractory-period phenomena (delays of overt responses after short stimulus onset asynchronies) observed in a variety of laboratory paradigms and realistic situations. This supports the claim of the present theoretical framework that multiple-task performance relies on adaptive executive control, which enables substantial amounts of temporal overlap among stimulus identification, response selection, and movement-production processes for concurrent tasks. Such overlap is achieved through optimized task scheduling by flexible executive processes that satisfy prevailing instructions about task priorities and allocate limited-capacity perceptual-motor resources efficiently.
972	symbolic	1993	SHASTRI, L; AJJANAGADDE, V	FROM SIMPLE ASSOCIATIONS TO SYSTEMATIC REASONING - A CONNECTIONIST REPRESENTATION OF RULES, VARIABLES AND DYNAMIC BINDINGS USING TEMPORAL SYNCHRONY	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Human agents draw a variety of inferences effortlessly, spontaneously, and with remarkable efficiency - as though these inferences were a reflexive response of their cognitive apparatus. Furthermore, these inferences are drawn with reference to a large body of background knowledge. This remarkable human ability seems paradoxical given the complexity of reasoning reported by researchers in artificial intelligence. It also poses a challenge for cognitive science and computational neuroscience: How can a system of simple and slow neuronlike elements represent a large body of systemic knowledge and perform a range of inferences with such speed? We describe a computational model that takes a step toward addressing the cognitive science challenge and resolving the artificial intelligence paradox. We show how a connectionist network can encode millions of facts and rules involving n-ary predicates and variables and perform a class of inferences in a few hundred milliseconds. Efficient reasoning requires the rapid representation and propagation of dynamic bindings. Our model (which we refer to as SHRUTI) achieves this by representing (1) dynamic bindings as the synchronous firing of appropriate nodes, (2) rules as interconnection patterns that direct the propagation of rhythmic activity, and (3) long-term facts as temporal pattern-matching subnetworks. The model is consistent with recent neurophysiological evidence that synchronous activity occurs in the brain and may play a representational role in neural information processing. The model also makes specific psychologically significant predictions about the nature of reflexive reasoning. It identifies constraints on the form of rules that may participate in such reasoning and relates the capacity of the working memory underlying reflexive reasoning to biological parameters such as the lowest frequency at which nodes can sustain synchronous oscillations and the coarseness of synchronization.
973	symbolic	1998	Cleeremans, A; Destrebecqz, A; Boyer, M	Implicit learning: news from the front	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Can we learn without awareness? While the current consensus is most likely to be 'no', there is, however, considerable ongoing debate about the role that consciousness plays in cognition and about the nature of consciousness itself. In this article, we review recent advances in the field of implicit learning, based on three perspectives: empirical findings (including neuropsychological evidence), methodological issues, and theoretical positions (including computational models). The overall picture that emerges is complex and reflects a field that is very much in flux: while it seems undeniable that cognition involves some form of unconscious processing, it is as yet unclear how to best separate conscious and unconscious influences on learning, and how to best think about the status of the 'cognitive unconscious'. We suggest that implicit learning is best construed as a complex form of priming taking place in continuously learning neural systems, and that the distributional knowledge so acquired can be causally efficacious in the absence of awareness that this knowledge was acquired or that it is currently influencing processing, that is, in the absence of metaknowledge.
974	symbolic	2003	Logan, GD; Bundesen, C	Clever homunculus: Is there an endogenous act of control in the explicit task-cuing procedure?	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Does the explicit task-cuing procedure require an endogenous act of control? In 5 experiments, cues indicating which task to perform preceded targets by several stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs). Two models were developed to account for changes in reaction time (RT) with SOA. Model 1 assumed an endogenous act of task switching for cue alternations but not for cue repetitions. Model 2 assumed no such act. In Experiments 1 and 2, the cue was masked or not masked. Masking interacted underadditively with repetition and alternation, consistent with Model 2 but not Model 1. In Experiments 3 and 4, 2 cues were used for each task. RT was slower for task repetition than for cue repetition and about the same as RT for task alternation, consistent with Model 2 but not Model 1. The results suggest that the explicit task-cuing procedure does not require an endogenous act of control.
975	symbolic	2002	Braver, TS; Barch, DA	A theory of cognitive control, aging cognition, and neuromodulation	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	A theory is described which links cognitive changes observed in normal aging to an underlying decline in the function of the dopamine (DA) system projection to prefrontal. cortex (PFC). The theory postulates that this neural mechanism is integral to the representation, maintenance and updating of context information, and as such impacts cognitive control across a wide range of cognitive domains, including working memory, attention, and inhibition. Behavioral and brain imaging data in support of the theory are discussed, which demonstrate selective impairments in context processing among healthy older adults associated with abnormal PFC activation. These findings highlight the utility of a computational approach to cognitive aging. Current directions for further refinement and validation of the model are outlined. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
976	symbolic	2002	Pitt, MA; Myung, IJ; Zhang, SB	Toward a method of selecting among computational models of cognition	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The question of how one should decide among competing explanations of data is at the heart of the scientific enterprise. Computational models of cognition are increasingly being advanced as explanations of behavior. The success of this line of inquiry depends on the development of robust methods to guide the evaluation and selection of these models. This article introduces a method of selecting among mathematical models of cognition known as minimum description length. which provides an intuitive and theoretically well-grounded understanding of why one model should be chosen. A central but elusive concept in model selection, complexity, can also be derived with the method. The adequacy of the method is demonstrated in 3 areas of cognitive modeling: psychophysics, information integration, and categorization.
977	symbolic	2004	Gopnik, A; Glymour, C; Sobel, DM; Schulz, LE; Kushnir, T; Danks, D	A theory of causal learning in children: Causal maps and Bayes nets	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The authors outline a cognitive and computational account of causal learning in children. They propose that children use specialized cognitive systems that allow them to recover an accurate "causal map" of the world: an abstract, coherent, learned representation of the causal relations among events. This kind of knowledge can be perspicuously understood in terms of the formalism of directed graphical causal models, or Bayes nets. Children's causal learning and inference may involve computations similar to those for learning causal Bayes nets and for predicting with them. Experimental results suggest that 2- to 4-year-old children construct new causal maps and that their learning is consistent with the Bayes net formalism.
978	symbolic	2003	Tombu, M; Jolicoeur, P	A central capacity sharing model of dual-task performance	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The authors present the central capacity sharing (CCS) model and derive equations describing its behaviors to explain results from dual-task situations. The predictions of the CCS model are contrasted with those of the central bottleneck model. The CCS model predicts all of the hallmark effects of the psychological refractory period (PRP) paradigm: -1 slope of the PRP effect at short stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs), underadditivity of precentral Task 2 manipulations, additivity of central or postcentral Task 2 manipulations with SOA, and carry forward to Task 2 of Task 1 precentral or central manipulations at short SOAs. The CCS model also predicts that Task 1 response times increase with decreasing SOA. The model is a viable alternative to the central bottleneck model.
979	symbolic	2010	Anderson, ML	Neural reuse: A fundamental organizational principle of the brain	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	An emerging class of theories concerning the functional structure of the brain takes the reuse of neural circuitry for various cognitive purposes to be a central organizational principle. According to these theories, it is quite common for neural circuits established for one purpose to be exapted (exploited, recycled, redeployed) during evolution or normal development, and be put to different uses, often without losing their original functions. Neural reuse theories thus differ from the usual understanding of the role of neural plasticity (which is, after all, a kind of reuse) in brain organization along the following lines: According to neural reuse, circuits can continue to acquire new uses after an initial or original function is established; the acquisition of new uses need not involve unusual circumstances such as injury or loss of established function; and the acquisition of a new use need not involve (much) local change to circuit structure (e.g., it might involve only the establishment of functional connections to new neural partners). Thus, neural reuse theories offer a distinct perspective on several topics of general interest, Such as: the evolution and development of the brain, including (for instance) the evolutionary-developmental pathway supporting primate tool use and human language; the degree of modularity in brain organization; the degree of localization of cognitive function; and the cortical parcellation problem and the prospects (and proper methods to employ) for function to structure mapping. The idea also has some practical implications in the areas of rehabilitative medicine and machine interface design.
980	symbolic	2001	Schumacher, EH; Seymour, TL; Glass, JM; Fencsik, DE; Lauber, EJ; Kieras, DE; Meyer, DE	Virtually perfect time sharing in dual-task performance: Uncorking the central cognitive bottleneck	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	A fundamental issue foe psychological science concerns the extent to which people can simultaneously perform two perceptual-motor tasks. Some theorists have hypothesized that skilled procedural decision making and response selection for two or more tasks can proceed at the same time under adaptive executive control. The three experiments reported here support this latter hypothesis. Their results show that after relatively modest amounts of practice, at least some participants achieve perfect time sharing in the dual-task performance of basic choice reaction tasks. The results also show that observed interference between tasks can be modulated by instructions about differential task priorities and personnel preferences for darting (concurrent) or cautious (successive) scheduling tasks. Given this outcome, future research should investigate exactly when and how such sophisticated skills in dual-task performance are acquired.
981	symbolic	2001	Braver, TS; Barch, DM; Keys, BA; Carter, CS; Cohen, JD; Kaye, JA; Janowsky, JS; Taylor, SF; Yesavage, JA; Mumenthaler, MS; Jagust, WJ; Reed, BR	Context processing in older adults: Evidence for a theory relating cognitive control to neurobiology in healthy aging	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	A theory of cognitive aging is presented in which healthy older adults are hypothesized to suffer from disturbances in the processing of context that impair cognitive control function across multiple domains, including attention, inhibition, and working memory. These cognitive disturbances are postulated to be directly related to age-related decline in the function of the dopamine (DA) system in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). A connectionist computational model is described that implements specific mechanisms for the role of DA and PFC in context processing. The behavioral predictions of the model were tested in a large sample of older (N = 81) and young (N = 175) adults performing variants of a simple cognitive control task that placed differential demands on context processing. Older adults exhibited both performance decrements and, counterintuitively, performance improvements that are in close agreement with model predictions.
982	symbolic	2007	Boucher, L; Palmeri, TJ; Logan, GD; Schall, JD	Inhibitory control in mind and brain: An interactive race model of countermanding Saccades	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The stop-signal task has been used to study normal cognitive control and clinical dysfunction. Its utility is derived from a race model that accounts for performance and provides an estimate of the time it takes to stop a movement. This model posits a race between go and stop processes with stochastically independent finish times. However, neurophysiological studies demonstrate that the neural correlates of the go and stop processes produce movements through a network of interacting neurons. The juxtaposition of the computational model with the neural data exposes a paradox-how can a network of interacting units produce behavior that appears to be the outcome of an independent race? The authors report how a simple, competitive network can solve this paradox and provide an account of what is measured by stop-signal reaction time.
983	symbolic	1998	van Gelder, T	The dynamical hypothesis in cognitive science	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	According to the dominant computational approach in cognitive science, cognitive agents are digital computers; according to the alternative approach, they are dynamical systems. This target article attempts to articulate and support the dynamical hypothesis. The dynamical hypothesis has two major components: the nature hypothesis (cognitive agents are dynamical systems) and the knowledge hypothesis (cognitive agents can be understood dynamically). A wide range of objections to this hypothesis can be rebutted. The conclusion is that cognitive systems may well be dynamical systems, and only sustained empirical research in cognitive science will determine the extent to which that is true.
984	symbolic	2003	Schneider, W; Chein, JM	Controlled & automatic processing: behavior, theory, and biological mechanisms	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This paper provides an overview of developments in a dual processing theory of automatic and controlled processing that began with the empirical and theoretical work described by Schneider and Shiffrin (1977) and Shiffrin and Schneider (1977) over a quarter century ago. A review of relevant empirical findings suggests that there is a set of core behavioral phenomena reflecting differences between controlled and automatic processing that must be addressed by a successful theory. These phenomena relate to: consistency in training, serial versus parallel processing, level of effort, robustness to stressors, degree of control, effects on long-term memory, and priority encoding. We detail a computational model of controlled processing, CAP2, that accounts for these phenomena as emergent properties of an underlying hybrid computational architecture. The model employs a large network of distributed data modules that can categorize, buffer, associate, and prioritize information. Each module is a connectionist network with input and output layers, and each module communicates with a central Control System by outputting priority and activity report signals, and by receiving control signals. The Control System is composed of five processors including a Goal Processor, an Attention Controller, an Activity Monitor, an Episodic Store, and a Gating & Report Relay. The transition from controlled to automatic processing occurs in this model as the data modules become capable of transmitting their output without mediation by the Control System. We describe recent progress in mapping the components of this model onto specific neuroanatomical substrates, briefly discuss the potential for applying functional neuroimaging techniques to test the model's predictions, and its relation to other models. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
985	symbolic	2006	Frank, MJ; O'Reilly, RC	A mechanistic account of striatal dopamine function in human cognition: Psychopharmacological studies with cabergoline and haloperidol	BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	The authors test a neurocomputational model of dopamine function in cognition by administering to healthy participants low doses of D-2 agents cabergoline and haloperidol. The model suggests that DA dynamically modulates the balance of Go and No-Go basal ganglia pathways during cognitive learning and performance. Cabergoline impaired, while haloperidol enhanced, Go learning from positive reinforcement, consistent with presynaptic drug effects. Cabergoline also caused an overall bias toward Go responding, consistent with postsynaptic action. These same effects extended to working memory and attentional domains, supporting the idea that the basal ganglia/dopamine system modulates the updating of prefrontal representations. Drug effects interacted with baseline working memory span in all tasks. Taken together, the results support a unified account of the role of dopamine in modulating cognitive processes that depend on the basal ganglia.
986	symbolic	1995	STENNING, K; OBERLANDER, J	A COGNITIVE THEORY OF GRAPHICAL AND LINGUISTIC REASONING - LOGIC AND IMPLEMENTATION	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We discuss external and internal graphical and linguistic representational systems. We argue that a cognitive theory of peoples' reasoning performance must account for (a) the logical equivalence of inferences expressed in graphical and linguistic form, and (b) the implementational differences that affect facility of inference. Our theory proposes that graphical representation limit abstraction and thereby aid ''processibility.'' We discuss the ideas of specificity and abstraction, and their cognitive relevance. Empirical support both comes from tasks which involve the manipulation of external graphics and tasks that do not. For the former, we take Euler's (1772) circles, provide a novel computational reconstruction, show how it captures abstractions, and contrast if with earlier construals and with Johnson-Lairds (1983) mental models representations. We demonstrate equivalence of the graphical Euler system, and the nongraphical mental models system, For tasks not involving manipulation of external graphics, we discuss text comprehension, and the mental performance of syllogisms. By positing an internal system with the some specificity as Euler's circles, we cover the mental models data, and generate new empirical predictions. Finally. we consider how the architecture of working memory explains why such specific representations are relatively easy to store.
987	symbolic	2002	Roy, DK; Pentland, AP	Learning words from sights and sounds: a computational model	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This paper presents an implemented computational model of word acquisition which learns directly from raw multimodal sensory input. Set in an information theoretic framework, the model acquires a lexicon by finding and statistically modeling consistent cross-modal structure. The model has been implemented in a system using novel speech processing, computer vision, and machine learning algorithms. In evaluations the model successfully performed speech segmentation, word discovery and visual categorization from spontaneous infant-directed speech paired with video images of single objects. These results demonstrate the possibility of using state-of-the-art techniques from sensory pattern recognition and machine learning to implement cognitive models which can process raw sensor data without the need for human transcription or labeling. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
988	symbolic	2007	O'Doherty, JP; Hampton, A; Kim, H	Model-based fMRI and its application to reward learning and decision making	REWARD AND DECISION MAKING IN CORTICOBASAL GANGLIA NETWORKS	In model-based functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), signals derived from a computational model for a specific cognitive process are correlated against fMRI data from subjects performing a relevant task to determine brain regions showing a response profile consistent with that model. A key advantage of this technique over more conventional neuroimaging approaches is that model-based fMRI can provide insights into how a particular cognitive process is implemented in a specific brain area as opposed to merely identifying where a particular process is located. This review will briefly summarize the approach of model-based fMRI, with reference to the field of reward learning and decision making, where computational models have been used to probe the neural mechanisms underlying learning of reward associations, modifying action choice to obtain reward, as well as in encoding expected value signals that reflect the abstract structure of a decision problem. Finally, some of the limitations of this approach will be discussed.
989	symbolic	2003	Newman, SD; Carpenter, PA; Varma, S; Just, MA	Frontal and parietal participation in problem solving in the Tower of London: fMRI and computational modeling of planning and high-level perception	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	This study triangulates executive planning and visuo-spatial reasoning in the context of the Tower of London (TOL) task by using a variety of methodological approaches. These approaches include functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), functional connectivity analysis, individual difference analysis, and computational modeling. A graded fMRI paradigm compared the brain activation during the solution of problems with varying path lengths: easy (I and 2 moves), moderate (3 and 4 moves) and difficult (5 and 6 moves). There were three central findings regarding the prefrontal cortex: (1) while both the left and right prefrontal cortices were equally involved during the solution of moderate and difficult problems, the activation on the right was differentially attenuated during the solution of the easy problems; (2) the activation observed in the right prefrontal cortex was highly correlated with individual differences in working memory (measured independently by the reading span task); and (3) different patterns of functional connectivity were observed in the left and right prefrontal cortices. Results obtained from the superior parietal region also revealed left/right differences; only the left superior parietal region revealed an effect of difficulty. These fMRI results converged upon two hypotheses: (1) the right prefrontal area may be more involved in the generation of a plan, whereas the left prefrontal area may be more involved in plan execution; and (2) the right superior parietal region is more involved in attention processes while the left homologue is more of a visuo-spatial workspace. A 4CAPS computational model of the cognitive processes and brain activation in the TOL task integrated these hypothesized mechanisms, and provided a reasonably good fit to the observed behavioral and brain activation data. The multiple research approaches presented here converge on a deepening understanding of the combination of perceptual and conceptual processes in this type of visual problem solving. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
990	symbolic	2000	Foygel, D; Dell, GS	Models of impaired lexical access in speech production	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	Two computational models of lexical access in aphasic speakers are compared. Both are derived from an interactive two-step theory of retrieval based on spreading activation. The weight-decay model (Dell et al., 1997) associates patients with deviant values of two parameters, global connection weight and global decal rate. The new semantic-phonological model characterizes patients by two different parameters, semantic weight and phonological weight. We provide a detailed analysis of the properties of both models and show that the semantic-phonological model is a serious competitor to the earlier model. Not only does it fit existing patient data as well as the weight-decay model does but it also has closer ties to other facts and theories in cognitive neuropsychology and psycholinguistics. (C) 2000 Academic Press.
991	symbolic	2005	Lewis, RL; Vasishth, S	An activation-based model of sentence processing as skilled memory retrieval	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We present a detailed process theory of the moment-by-moment working-memory retrievals and associated control structure that subserve sentence comprehension. The theory is derived from the application of independently motivated principles of memory and cognitive skill to the specialized task of sentence parsing. The resulting theory construes sentence processing as a series of skilled associative memory retrievals modulated by similarity-based interference and fluctuating activation. The cognitive principles are formalized in computational form in the Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) architecture, and our process model is realized in ACT-R. We present the results of 6 sets of simulations: 5 simulation sets provide quantitative accounts of the effects of length and structural interference on both unambiguous and garden-path structures. A final simulation set provides a graded taxonomy of double center embeddings ranging from relatively easy to extremely difficult. The explanation of center-embedding difficulty is a novel one that derives from the model's complete reliance on discriminating retrieval cues in the absence of an explicit representation of serial order information. All fits were obtained with only 1 free scaling parameter fixed across the simulations; all other parameters were ACT-R defaults. The modeling results support the hypothesis that fluctuating activation and similarity-based interference are the key factors shaping working memory in sentence processing. We contrast the theory and empirical predictions with several related accounts of sentence-processing complexity.
992	symbolic	1997	Gupta, P; MacWhinney, B	Vocabulary acquisition and verbal short-term memory: Computational and neural bases	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	In this paper, we explore the hypothesis that human vocabulary acquisition processes and verbal short-term memory abilities utilize a common cognitive and neural system. We begin by reviewing behavioral evidence for a shared set of processes. Next, we examine what the computational bases of such a shared system might be and how vocabulary acquisition and verbal short-term memory might be related in mechanistic terms. We examine existing computational models of vocabulary acquisition and of verbal short-term memory, concluding that they fail to adequately relate these two domains. We then propose an alternative model which accounts not only for the relationship between word learning and verbal short-term memory, but also for a wide range of phenomena in verbal short-term memory. Furthermore, this new account provides a clear statement of the relationship between the proposed system and mechanisms of language processing more generally. We then consider possible neural substrates for this cognitive system. We begin by reviewing what is known of the neural substrates of speech processing and outline a conceptual framework within which a variety of seemingly contradictory neurophysiological and neuropsychological findings can be accommodated. The linkage of the shared system for vocabulary acquisition and verbal short-term memory to neural areas specifically involved in speech processing lends further support to our functional-level identification of the mechanisms of vocabulary acquisition and verbal short-term memory with those of language processing. The present work thus relates vocabulary acquisition and verbal short-term memory to each other and to speech processing, at a cognitive, computational, and neural level. (C) 1997 Academic Press.
993	symbolic	2008	Botvinick, MM	Hierarchical models of behavior and prefrontal function	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The recognition of hierarchical structure in human behavior was one of the founding insights of the cognitive revolution. Despite decades of research, however, the computational mechanisms underlying hierarchically organized behavior are still not fully understood. Recent findings from behavioral and neuroscientific research have fueled a resurgence of interest in the problem, inspiring a new generation of computational models. In addition to developing some classic proposals, these models also break fresh ground, teasing apart different forms of hierarchical structure, placing a new focus on the issue of learning and addressing recent findings concerning the representation of behavioral hierarchies within the prefrontal cortex. In addition to offering explanations for some key aspects of behavior and functional neuroanatomy, the latest models also pose new questions for empirical research.
994	symbolic	2002	Navon, D; Miller, J	Queuing or sharing? A critical evaluation of the single-bottleneck notion	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	The model of a single central bottleneck for human information processing is critically examined. Most evidence cited in support of the model has been observed within the overlapping tasks paradigm. It is shown here that most findings obtained within that paradigm and that were used to support the model are also consistent with a simple resource model. The most prominent findings are the millisecond-for-millisecond slope at the left of the RT2-SOA curve, the high RT1-RT2 correlation, the additivity of the effects on RT2 of SOA and of the difficulty of selecting R2, and the washout of the effect of S2 discriminability on RT2 in a dual-task condition. In addition, the asymmetry of the effects of the dual-task requirement on RT1 and RT2 can be accounted for by the resource model provided that it assumes uneven allocation of resources, which is quite reasonable in view of the task asymmetry inherent in the demand characteristics of the paradigm. The same is true for two other findings that appear to support the single-bottleneck model-that in the dual-task condition, the demand of the first task affects equally RT1 and RT2 and that its effect on RT1 is the same as the cot-responding effect in the single-task condition. Furthermore, the single-bottleneck model is hard to reconcile with a negative slope at the left of the RT1-SOA curve or a positive slope at the left of the IR1-SOA curve, unless augmented by ancillary assumptions, that are yet to be substantiated. Representative data were fit by each of the models using its optimal set of parameters. Both models achieved quite good degrees of fit. It is further argued that since the overlapping tasks paradigm is heavily biased in favor of a speedy reaction to the stimulus that appears first, it is nonoptimal for testing the central bottleneck model, Finally. the bottleneck model is examined in terms of other scientific criteria. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science (USA).
995	symbolic	2001	Ullman, MT	The declarative/procedural model of lexicon and grammar	JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLINGUISTIC RESEARCH	Our use of language depends upon two capacities: a mental lexicon of memorized words and a mental grammar of rules that underlie the sequential and hierarchical composition of lexical forms into predictably structured larger words, phrases, and sentences. The declarative/procedural model posits that the lexicon/grammar distinction in language is tied to the distinction between two well-studied brain memory systems. On this view, the memorization and use of at least simple words (those with noncompositional, that is, arbitrary form-meaning pairings) depends upon an associative memory of distributed representations that is subserved by temporal-lobe circuits previously implicated in the learning and use of fact and event knowledge. This "declarative memory" system appears to be specialized for learning arbitrarily related information (i.e., far associative binding). In contrast the acquisition and use of grammatical rules that underlie symbol manipulation is subserved by frontal/basal-ganglia circuits previously implicated in the implicit (nonconscious) learning and expression of motor and cognitive "skills" and "habits" (e.g., from simple motor acts to skilled game playing). This "procedural" system may be specialized for computing sequences. This novel view of lexicon and grammar offers an alternative to the two main competing theoretical frameworks. It shares the perspective of traditional dual-mechanism theories in positing that the mental lexicon and a symbol-manipulating mental grammar are subserved by distinct computational components that may be linked to distinct brain structures However it diverges from these theories where they assume components dedicated to each of the two language capacities (that is, domain-specific) and in their common assumption that lexical memory is a rote list of items. Conversely, while it shares with single-mechanism theories the perspective that the two capacities are subserved by domain-independent computational mechanisms, it diverges from them where they link both capacities to a single associative memory system with broad anatomic distribution The declarative/procedural model, but neither traditional dual- nor single-mechanism models, predicts double dissociations between lexicon and grammar; with associations among associative memory properties, memorized words and facts, and temporal-lobe structures, and among symbol-manipulation properties, grammatical rule products, motor skills, and frontal/basal-ganglia structures. In order to contrast lexicon and grammar while holding other factors constant, we have focused our investigations of the declarative/procedural model on morphologically complex word farms. Morphological transformations that are (largely) unproductive (e.g., in go-went, solemn-solemnity) are hypothesized to depend upon declarative memory. These have been contrasted with morphological transformations that are fully productive (e.g., in walk-walked, happy-happiness), whose computation is posited to be solely dependent upon grammatical rules subserved by the procedural system. Here evidence is presented from studies that use a range of psycholinguistic and neurolinguistic approaches with children and adults. It is argued that converging evidence from these studies supports the declarative/procedural model of lexicon and grammar.
996	symbolic	1997	Kolodner, JL	Educational implications of analogy - A view from case-based reasoning	AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST	Case-based reasoning (CBR) focuses on analogy in the context of solving real-world problems. Its research methodology of computational modeling is aimed at deriving hypotheses about cognition. CBR's computational models show the roles of encoding, retrieval, and adaptation in analogical reasoning processes. In addition, its algorithms provide insight into what it might fake to enhance human cognition. CBR as a plausible cognitive model can thus advise on educational philosophy educational practice, and design of educational software.
997	symbolic	2003	Steyvers, M; Tenenbaum, JB; Wagenmakers, EJ; Blum, B	Inferring causal networks from observations and interventions	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Information about the structure of a causal system can come in the form of observational data-random samples of the system's autonomous behavior-or interventional data-samples conditioned on the particular values of one or more variables that have been experimentally manipulated. Here we study people's ability to infer causal structure from both observation and intervention, and to choose informative interventions on the basis of observational data. In three causal inference tasks, participants were to some degree capable of distinguishing between competing causal hypotheses on the basis of purely observational data. Performance improved substantially when participants were allowed to observe the effects of interventions that they performed on the systems. We develop computational models of how people infer causal structure from data and how they plan intervention experiments, based on the representational framework of causal graphical models and the inferential principles of optimal Bayesian decision-making and maximizing expected information gain. These analyses suggest that people can make rational causal inferences, subject to psychologically reasonable representational assumptions and computationally reasonable processing constraints. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
998	symbolic	1995	PLAUT, DC	DOUBLE DISSOCIATION WITHOUT MODULARITY - EVIDENCE FROM CONNECTIONIST NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	JOURNAL OF CLINICAL AND EXPERIMENTAL NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	Many theorists assume that the cognitive system is composed of a collection of encapsulated processing components or modules, each dedicated to performing a particular cognitive function. On this view, selective impairments of cognitive tasks following brain damage, as evidenced by double dissociations, are naturally interpreted in terms of the loss of particular processing components. By contrast, the current investigation examines in detail a double dissociation between concrete and abstract word reading after damage to a connectionist network that pronounces words via meaning and yet has no separable components (Plaut and Shallice, 1993). The functional specialization in the network that gives rise to the double dissociation is not transparently related to the network's structure, as modular theories assume. Furthermore, a consideration of the distribution of effects across quantitatively equivalent individual lesions in the network raises specific concerns about the interpretation of single-case studies. The findings underscore the necessity of relating neuropsychological data to cognitive theories in the context of specific computational assumptions about how the cognitive system operates normally and after damage.
999	symbolic	2003	Steels, L	Evolving grounded communication for robots	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The computational and robotic synthesis of language evolution is emerging as a new exciting field of research. The objective is to come up with precise operational models of how communities of agents, equipped with a cognitive apparatus, a sensori-motor system, and a body, can arrive at shared grounded communication systems. Such systems may have similar characteristics to animal communication or human language. Apart from its technological interest in building novel applications in the domain of human-robot or robot-robot interaction, this research is of interest to the many disciplines concerned with the origins and evolution of language and communication.
1000	symbolic	1999	Horwitz, B; Tagamets, MA; McIntosh, AR	Neural modeling, functional brain imaging, and cognition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The richness and complexity of data sets acquired from PET or fMRI studies of human cognition have not been exploited until recently by computational neuronal modeling methods. In this article, two neural-modeling approaches for use with functional brain imaging data are described. One, which uses structural equation modeling, estimates the functional strengths of the anatomical connections between various brain regions during specific cognitive tasks. The second employs large-scale neural modeling to relate functional neuroimaging signals in multiple, interconnected brain regions to the underlying neurobiological time-varying activities in each region. Delayed match-to-sample (visual working memory for form) tasks are used to illustrate these models.
1001	symbolic	2008	Salvucci, DD; Taatgen, NA	Threaded cognition: An integrated theory of concurrent multitasking	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The authors propose the idea of threaded cognition, an integrated theory of concurrent multitasking-that is, performing 2 or more tasks at once. Threaded cognition posits that streams of thought can be represented as threads of processing coordinated by a serial procedural resource and executed across other available resources (e.g., perceptual and motor resources). The theory specifies a parsimonious mechanism that allows for concurrent execution, resource acquisition, and resolution of resource conflicts, without the need for specialized executive processes. By instantiating this mechanism as a computational model, threaded cognition provides explicit predictions of how multitasking behavior can result in interference, or lack thereof, for a given set of tasks. The authors illustrate the theory in model simulations of several representative domains ranging from simple laboratory tasks such as dual-choice tasks to complex real-world domains such as driving and driver distraction.
1002	symbolic	2008	Egner, T	Multiple conflict-driven control mechanisms in the human brain	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Conflict between competing neural representations is thought to serve as an internal signal for the recruitment of 'cognitive control', which resolves conflict by biasing information processing in line with current task demands. Because conflict can occur at different levels of stimulus and response representations, several recent investigations have examined whether conflict-driven cognitive control is domain-general or domain-specific, that is, whether control recruited by one type of conflict affects the resolution of another, but these studies have produced contrary conclusions. I argue here that a critical reading of this literature indicates that the effects of conflict-driven control are domain-specific and are probably mediated by multiple, independent conflict-control loops that can operate in parallel.
1003	symbolic	1998	Lawrence, AD; Sahakian, BJ; Robbins, TW	Cognitive functions and corticostriatal circuits: insights from Huntington's disease	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The basic Bade basic mechanisms of information processing by corticostriatal circuits are currently a matter of intense debate amongst cognitive scientists. Huntington's disease, an autosomal-dominant neurogenetic disorder characterized clinically by a triad of motor, cognitive, and affective disturbance, is associated with neuronal loss within corticostriatal circuits, and as such provides a valuable model for understanding the role of these circuits in normal behaviour, and their disruption in disease. We review findings from our studies of the breakdown of cognition in Huntington's disease, with particular emphasis on executive functions and visual recognition memory. We show that Huntington's disease patients exhibit a neuropsychological profile that shows a discernible pattern of progression with advancing disease, and appears to result from a in the mechanisms of response selection. These findings are consistent with computational models that suggest that corticostriatal circuits compute the patterns of sensory input and response output which are of behavioural significance a particular environmental context.
1004	symbolic	2007	Kveraga, K; Ghuman, AS; Bar, M	Top-down predictions in the cognitive brain	BRAIN AND COGNITION	The human brain is not a passive organ simply waiting to be activated by external stimuli. Instead, we propose that the brain continuously employs memory of past experiences to interpret sensory information and predict the immediately relevant future. The basic elements of this proposal include analogical mapping, associative representations and the generation of predictions. This review concentrates on visual recognition as the model system for developing and testing ideas about the role and mechanisms of top-down predictions in the brain. We cover relevant behavioral, computational and neural aspects, explore links to emotion and action preparation, and consider clinical implications for schizophrenia and dyslexia. We then discuss the extension of the general principles of this proposal to other cognitive domains. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
1005	symbolic	2009	Botvinick, MM; Niv, Y; Barto, AC	Hierarchically organized behavior and its neural foundations: A reinforcement learning perspective	COGNITION	Research on human and animal behavior has long emphasized its hierarchical structure the divisibility of ongoing behavior into discrete tasks, which are comprised of subtask sequences, which in turn are built of simple actions. The hierarchical structure of behavior has also been of enduring interest within neuroscience, where it has been widely considered to reflect prefrontal cortical functions. In this paper, we reexamine behavioral hierarchy and its neural substrates from the point of view of recent developments in computational reinforcement learning. Specifically, we consider a set of approaches known collectively as hierarchical reinforcement learning, which extend the reinforcement learning paradigm by allowing the learning agent to aggregate actions into reusable subroutines or skills. A close took at the components of hierarchical reinforcement learning suggests how they might map onto neural structures, in particular regions within the dorsolateral and orbital prefrontal cortex. It also suggests specific ways in which hierarchical reinforcement learning might provide a complement to existing psychological models of hierarchically structured behavior. A particularly important question that hierarchical reinforcement learning brings to the fore is that of how learning identifies new action routines that are likely to provide useful building blocks in solving a wide range of future problems. Here and at many other points. hierarchical reinforcement learning offers an appealing framework for investigating the computational and neural underpinnings of hierarchically structured behavior. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1006	symbolic	1998	Miller, GF; Todd, PM	Mate choice turns cognitive	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Evolutionary psychology has revolutionized research on human mate choice and Sexual attraction in recent years, combining a rigorous Darwinian framework based On sexual selection theory with a loosely cognitivist orientation: to task analysis and mechanism modelling. This hard Darwinian, soft computational approach. has been most successful at revealing the adaptive logic behind physical beauty, demonstrating that many:sexual cues computed from face and body shape are not arbitrary, but function as reliable indicators of phenotypic and genetic quality. The same approach could be extended from physical to psychological cues if evolutionary psychology built stronger ties with personality psychology, psychometrics and behavioral genetics. A major challenge for mate choice research is to develop more explicit computational models at three levels, specifying: (1) the perceptual adaptations that register sexual cues given sensory: input, (2) the judgment adaptations that integrate multiple cues into assessments of overall attractiveness, and (3) the search strategies that people follow in trying:to form mutually attracted pairs. We describe both recent efforts and possible extensions in these directions. The resulting confluence between evolutionary principles cognitive models and game-theoretic insights can put mate choice research at the vanguard of an. emerging 'evolutionary cognitive science' more concerned With domain-specific mental, adaptations than with domain-general intelligence.
1007	symbolic	1997	Burgess, C; Lund, K	Modelling parsing constraints with high-dimensional context space	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	Deriving representations of meaning has been a long-standing problem in cognitive psychology and psycholinguistics. The lack of a model for representing semantic and grammatical knowledge has been a handicap in attempting to model the effects of semantic constraints in human syntactic processing. A computational model of high-dimensional context space, the Hyperspace Analogue to Language (HAL), is presented with a series of simulations modelling a variety of human empirical results. HAL learns its representations from the unsupervised processing of 300 million words of conversational text. We propose that HAL's high-dimensional context space can be used to (1) provide a basic categorisation of semantic and grammatical concepts, (2) model certain aspects of morphological ambiguity in verbs, and (3) provide an account of semantic context effects in syntactic processing. We propose that the distributed and contextually derived representations that HAL acquires provide a basis for the subconceptual knowledge that can be used in accounting for a diverse set of cognitive phenomena.
1008	symbolic	2008	Verguts, T; Notebaert, W	Hebbian learning of cognitive control: Dealing with specific and nonspecific adaptation	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The conflict monitoring model of M. M. Botvinick, T. S. Braver, D. M. Barch, C. S. Carter, and J. D. Cohen (2001) triggered several research programs investigating various aspects of cognitive control. One problematic aspect of the Botvinick et al. model is that there is no clear account of how the cognitive system knows where to intervene when conflict is detected. As a result, recent findings of task-specific and context-specific (e.g., item-specific) adaptation are difficult to interpret. The difficulty with item-specific adaptation was recently pointed out by C. Blais, S. Robidoux, E. F. Risko, and D. Besner (2007), who proposed an alternative model that could account for this. However, the same problem of where the cognitive system should intervene resurfaces in a different shape in this model, and it has difficulty in accounting for the Gratton effect, a hallmark item-nonspecific effect. The authors of the current article show how these problems can be solved when cognitive control is implemented as a conflict-modulated Hebbian learning rule.
1009	symbolic	2006	Salvucci, DD	Modeling driver behavior in a cognitive architecture	HUMAN FACTORS	Objective: This paper explores the development of a rigorous computational model of driver behavior in a cognitive architecture - a computational framework with underlying psychological theories that incorporate basic properties and limitations of the human system. Background: Computational modeling has emerged as a powerful tool for studying the complex task of driving, allowing researchers to simulate driver behavior and explore the parameters and constraints of this behavior. Method: An integrated driver model developed in the ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational) cognitive architecture is described that focuses on the component processes of control, monitoring, and decision making in a multilane highway environment. Results: This model accounts for the steering profiles, lateral position profiles, and gaze distributions of human drivers during lane keeping, curve negotiation, and lane changing. Conclusion: The model demonstrates how cognitive architectures facilitate understanding of driver behavior in the context of general human abilities and constraints and how the driving domain benefits cognitive architectures by pushing model development toward more complex, realistic tasks. Application: The model can also serve as a core computational engine for practical applications that predict and recognize driver behavior and distraction.
1010	symbolic	2006	Potts, GF; Martin, LE; Burton, P; Montague, PR	When things are better or worse than expected: The medial frontal cortex and the allocation of processing resources	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Access to limited-capacity neural systems of cognitive control must be restricted to the most relevant information. How the brain identifies and selects items for preferential processing is not fully understood. Anatomical models often place the selection mechanism in the medial frontal cortex (MFC), and one computational model proposes that the mesotelencephalic dopamine (DA) system, via its reward prediction properties, provides a "gate" through which information gains access to limited-capacity systems. There is a medial frontal event-related potential (ERP) index of attention selection, the anterior positivity (P2a), associated with DA reward system input to the MFC for the identification of task-relevant perceptual representations. The P2a has a similar spatio-temporal distribution as the medial frontal negativity (MFN), elicited to error responses or choices resulting in monetary loss. The MFN has also been linked to DA projections to the MFC but for action monitoring rather than attention selection. This study proposes that the P2a and the MFN reflect the same MFC evaluation function and use a passive reward prediction design containing neither instructed attention nor response to demonstrate that the ERP over medial frontal leads at the P2a/MFN latency is consistent with activity of midbrain DA neurons, positive to unpredicted rewards and negative when a predicted reward is withheld. This result suggests that MFC activity is regulated by DA reward system input and may function to identify items or actions that exceed or fail to meet motivational prediction.
1011	symbolic	2009	Verguts, T; Notebaert, W	Adaptation by binding: a learning account of cognitive control	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Cognitive control refers to the ability to repress our instantaneous urges in favor of more appropriate responses. Current debate concerns whether cognitive control effects that are studied in the laboratory (e.g. Stroop tasks) actually reflect the operation of a cognitive control system (adaptation theory) or instead merely reflect side effects of feature binding processes (binding theory). The two perspectives can be integrated by conceptualizing cognitive control as resulting from interactions between binding processes (as instantiated in Hebbian learning) and arousal. Conflict situations such as Stroop incongruent-stimuli lead to arousal and noradrenalin release throughout the brain, which facilitates binding between task-relevant cortical areas. Our proposal emphasizes an intimate link between cognitive and emotional processing.
1012	symbolic	2006	Yeung, N; Cohen, JD	The impact of cognitive deficits on conflict monitoring - Predictable dissociations between the error-related negativity and N2	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Monitoring of ongoing processing plays a critical role in regulating cognitive function. Two event-related potential components, the error-related negativity (ERN) and N2, have been proposed to reflect this monitoring function. Specifically, it has been suggested that both components reflect the role of anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) in monitoring for the occurrence of response conflict. This view appears to be challenged by findings that alcohol consumption and lesions in ACC have dissociable effects on the ERN and N2. Using a computational model, the present research demonstrates that the conflict-monitoring theory can account for these dissociations in terms of the dissociable effects of alcohol and ACC lesions on processing of relevant stimulus information (which determines ERN amplitude) and processing of irrelevant, distracting information (which determines N2 amplitude). The simulation results suggest new interpretations of the cognitive deficits caused by alcohol consumption (impaired stimulus processing) and ACC lesions (impaired attentional control).
1013	symbolic	2002	Large, EW; Palmer, C	Perceiving temporal regularity in music	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We address how listeners perceive temporal regularity in music performances, which are rich in temporal irregularities. A computational model is described in which a small system of internal self-sustained oscillations, operating at different periods with specific phase and period relations, entrains to the rhythms of music performances. Based on temporal expectancies embodied by the oscillations, the model predicts the categorization of temporally changing event intervals into discrete metrical categories, as well as the perceptual salience of deviations from these categories. The model's predictions are tested in two experiments using piano performances of the same music with different phrase structure interpretations (Experiment 1) or different melodic interpretations (Experiment 2). The model successfully tracked temporal regularity amidst the temporal fluctuations found in the performances. The model's sensitivity to performed deviations from its temporal expectations compared favorably with the per-formers' structural (phrasal and melodic) intentions. Furthermore, the model tracked normal performances (with increased temporal variability) better than performances in which temporal fluctuations associated with individual voices were removed (with decreased variability). The small, systematic temporal irregularities characteristic of human performances (chord asynchronies) improved tracking, but randomly generated temporal irregularities did not. These findings suggest that perception of temporal regularity in complex musical sequences is based on temporal expectancies that adapt in response to temporally fluctuating input. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
1014	symbolic	2002	Thomas, M; Karmiloff-Smith, A	Are developmental disorders like cases of adult brain damage? Implications from connectionist modelling	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	It is often assumed that similar domain-specific behavioural impairments found in cases of adult brain damage and developmental disorders correspond to similar underlying causes, and can serve as convergent evidence for the modular structure of the normal adult cognitive system. We argue that this correspondence is contingent on an unsupported assumption that atypical development can produce selective deficits while the rest of the system develops normally (Residual Normality), and that this assumption tends to bias data collection in the field. Based on a review of connectionist models of acquired and developmental disorders in the domains of reading and past tense, as well as on new simulations, we explore the computational viability of Residual Normality and the potential role of development in producing behavioural deficits. Simulations demonstrate that damage to a developmental model can produce very different effects depending on whether it occurs prior to or following the training process. Because developmental disorders typically involve damage prior to learning, we conclude that the developmental process is a key component of the explanation of endstate impairments in such disorders. further simulations demonstrate that in simple connectionist learning systems, the assumption of Residual Normality is undermined by processes of compensation or alteration elsewhere in the system. We outline the precise computational conditions required for Residual Normality to hold in development, and suggest that in many cases it is an unlikely hypothesis. We conclude that in developmental disorders, inferences from behavioural deficits to underlying structure crucially depend on developmental conditions, and that the process of ontogenetic development cannot be ignored in constructing models of developmental disorders.
1015	symbolic	2005	Howard, MW; Fotedar, MS; Datey, AV; Hasselmo, ME	The temporal context model in spatial navigation and relational learning: Toward a common explanation of medial temporal lobe function across domains	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The medial temporal lobe (MTL) has been studied extensively at all levels of analysis, yet its function remains unclear. Theory regarding the cognitive function of the MTL has centered along 3 themes. Different authors have emphasized the role of the MTL in episodic recall, spatial navigation, or relational memory. Starting with the temporal context model (M. W. Howard & M. J. Kahana, 2002a), a distributed memory model that has been applied to benchmark data from episodic recall tasks, the authors propose that the entorhinal cortex supports a gradually changing representation of temporal context and the hippocampus proper enables retrieval of these contextual states. Simulation studies show this hypothesis explains the firing of place cells in the entorhinal cortex and the behavioral effects of hippocampal lesion in relational memory tasks. These results constitute a first step toward a unified computational theory of MTL function that integrates neurophysiological, neuropsychological, and cognitive findings.
1016	symbolic	1998	O'Reilly, RC	Six principles for biologically based computational models of cortical cognition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	This review describes and motivates six principles for computational cognitive neuroscience models: biological realism, distributed representations, inhibitory competition. bidirectional activation propagation, error-driven task learning, and Hebbian model learning. Although these principles are supported by a number of hive, computational and biological motivations, the prototypical neural-network I (a feedforward back-propagation network) incorporates only two of them, and widely used model incorporates all of them. It is argued here that these principles should be integrated into a coherent overall framework, and some potential synergies and conflicts in doing so are discussed.
1017	symbolic	2005	Holroyd, CB; Yeung, N; Coles, MGH; Cohen, JD	A mechanism for error detection in speeded response time tasks	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	The concept of error detection plays a central role in theories of executive control. In this article, the authors present a mechanism that can rapidly detect errors in speeded response time tasks. This error monitor assigns values to the output of cognitive processes involved in stimulus categorization and response generation and detects errors by identifying states of the system associated with negative value. The mechanism is formalized in a computational model based on a recent theoretical framework for understanding error processing in humans (C. B. Holroyd & M. G. H. Coles, 2002). The model is used to simulate behavioral and event-related brain potential data in a speeded response time task, and the results of the simulation are compared with empirical data.
1018	symbolic	2009	Wyble, B; Nieuwenstein, M; Bowman, H	The Attentional Blink Provides Episodic Distinctiveness: Sparing at a Cost	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The attentional blink (J. E. Raymond. K. L. Shapiro, & K. M. Arnett. 1992) refers to an apparent gap in perception observed when a second target follows a first within several hundred milliseconds. Theoretical and computational work have provided explanations for early sets of blink data, but more recent data have challenged these accounts by showing that the blink is attenuated when subjects encode strings of stimuli (J. Kawahara, T. Kumada. & V. Di Lollo. 2006 A R. Nieuwenstein & M. C. Potter. 2006: C. N. Olivers, 2007) or are distracted (C. N. Olivers & S. Nieuwenhuis. 2005) while viewing the rapid serial visual presentation stream. The authors describe the episodic simultaneous type, serial token model. a computational account of encoding Visual Stimuli into working memory that suggests that the attentional blink is a cognitive strategy rather than a resource limitation. This model is composed of neurobiologically plausible elements and simulates the attentional blink with a competitive attentional mechanism that facilitates the formation of episodically distinct representations within working memory. In addition to addressing the blink, the model addresses the phenomena of repetition blindness and whole report Superiority, producing predictions that are supported by experimental work.
1019	symbolic	1998	Burgess, C; Livesay, K; Lund, K	Explorations in context space: Words, sentences, discourse	DISCOURSE PROCESSES	Deriving representations of meaning, whether at the word, the sentence, or the discourse level, is a problem with a long history in cognitive psychology and psycholinguistics. In this article, we describe a computational model of high-dimensional context space, the Hyperspace Analog to Language (HAL), and present simulation evidence that HAL's vector representations can provide sufficient information to make semantic, grammatical, and abstract distinctions. Human participants were able to use the context neighborhoods that HAL generates to match words with similar items and to derive the word (or a similar word) from the neighborhood, thus demonstrating the cognitive compatibility of the representations with human processing. An experiment exploring the meaning of agent- and patient-oriented verbs provided the context for discussing how the connotative aspects of word neighborhoods could provide cues in establishing a discourse model. Using the vector representations to build a sentence-level representation was attempted, but the results were not promising. This limitation of the representations is presented in the context of other similar models that have been more effective, A final set of experiments explored the nature of;verbs and verb instruments, and we introduce a new methodology that extracts conceptual intersections from the high-dimensional context space.
1020	symbolic	1996	Plaut, DC	Relearning after damage in connectionist networks: Toward a theory of rehabilitation	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	Connectionist modeling offers a useful computational framework for exploring the nature of normal and impaired cognitive processes. The current work extends the relevance of connectionist modeling in neuropsychology to address issues in cognitive rehabilitation: the degree and speed of recovery through retraining, the extent to which improvement on treated items generalizes to untreated items, and how treated items are selected to maximize this generalization. A network previously used to model impairments in mapping orthography to semantics is retrained after damage. The degree of relearning and generalization varies considerably for different lesion locations, and has interesting implications for understanding the nature and variability of recovery in patients. Tn a second simulation, retraining on words whose semantics are atypical of their category yields more generalization than retraining on more typical words, suggesting a counterintuitive strategy for selecting items in patient therapy to maximize recovery. In a final simulation, changes in the pattern of errors produced by the network over the course of recovery is used to constrain explanations of the nature of recovery of analogous brain-damaged patients. Taken together, the findings demonstrate that the nature of relearning in damaged connectionist networks can make important contributions to a theory of rehabilitation in patients. (C) 1996 Academic Press, Inc.
1021	symbolic	2008	Niv, Y; Schoenbaum, G	Dialogues on prediction errors	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The recognition that computational ideas from reinforcement learning are relevant to the study of neural circuits has taken the cognitive neuroscience community by storm. A central tenet of these models is that discrepancies between actual and expected outcomes can be used for learning. Neural correlates of such prediction-error signals have been observed now in midbrain dopaminergic neurons, striatum, amygdala and even prefrontal cortex, and models incorporating prediction errors have been invoked to explain complex phenomena such as the transition from goal-directed to habitual behavior. Yet, like any revolution, the fast-paced progress has left an uneven understanding in its wake. Here, we provide answers to ten simple questions about prediction errors, with the aim of exposing both the strengths and the limitations of this active area of neuroscience research.
1022	symbolic	2002	Li, SC; Sikstrom, S	Integrative neurocomputational perspectives on cognitive aging, neuromodulation, and representation	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	Besides neuroanatomical changes, neuromodulatory mechanisms are also compromised during aging. Neural network models are suitable tools for exploring the relatively broad and homogenous neuromodulatory influences on cortical function. Computational approaches for understanding neuromodulation of the dynamic properties of cortical function and recent neurocomputational theories relating different aspects of cognitive aging with declines in neuromodulation are reviewed. Considered within an integrative cross-level neurocomputational framework, aging-related decline in dopaminergic neurornodulation reduces the fidelity of neural information and gives rise to less distinctive neural pattern representations that may underlie various facets of aging cognitive and, possibly also, sensorimotor phenomena. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
1023	symbolic	2007	Brown, JW; Reynolds, JR; Braver, TS	A computational model of fractionated conflict-control mechanisms in task-switching	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	A feature of human cognition is the ability to monitor and adjust one's own behavior under changing circumstances. A dynamic balance between controlled and rapid responding is needed to adapt to a fluctuating environment. We suggest that cognitive control may include, among other things, two distinct processes. Incongruent stimuli may drive top-down facilitation of task-relevant responses to bias performance toward exploitation vs. exploration. Task or response switches may generally slow responses to bias toward accuracy vs. speed and exploration vs. exploitation. Behavioral results from a task switching study demonstrate these two distinct processes as revealed by higher-order sequential effects. A computational model implements the two conflict-control mechanisms, which allow it to capture many complex and novel sequential effects. Lesion studies with the model demonstrate that the model is unable to capture these effects without the conflict-control loops and show how each monitoring component modulates cognitive control. The results suggest numerous testable predictions regarding the neural substrates of cognitive control. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
1024	symbolic	1996	Shultz, TR; Lepper, MR	Cognitive dissonance reduction as constraint satisfaction	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A constraint satisfaction neural network model (the consonance model) simulated data from the two major cognitive dissonance paradigms of insufficient justification and free choice. In several cases, the model fit the human data better than did cognitive dissonance theory. Superior fits were due to the inclusion of constraints that were not part of dissonance theory and to the increased precision inherent to this computational approach. Predictions generated by the model for a free choice between undesirable alternatives were confirmed in a new psychological experiment. The success of the consonance model underscores important, unforeseen similarities between what had been formerly regarded as the rather exotic process of dissonance reduction and a variety of other, more mundane psychological processes. Many of these processes can be understood as the progressive application of constraints supplied by beliefs and attitudes.
1025	symbolic	1999	Humphreys, GW; Price, CJ; Riddoch, MJ	From objects to names: A cognitive neuroscience approach	PSYCHOLOGICAL RESEARCH-PSYCHOLOGISCHE FORSCHUNG	To name an object, we need both to recognize it and to access the associated phonological form, and phonological retrieval itself may be constrained by aspects of the visual recognition process. This paper reviews evidence for such constraints, drawing on data from experimental psychology, neuropsychology, functional imaging, and computational modelling. Data on picture identification in normal observers demonstrate that the speed of name retrieval processes differs for natural objects and artifacts, due at least in part to differences in visual similarity between exemplars within these categories. Also, effects of variables on early and late stages of object identification combine in an interactive rather than an additive manner, consistent with object processing stages operating in a continuous rather than a discrete manner. Neuropsychological evidence supports this proposal, demonstrating that subtle perceptual deficits can produce naming problems, even when there is good access to associated semantic knowledge. Functional activation studies further show increased activity in visual processing areas when conditions stress object naming relative to the recognition of familiar object structures. These studies indicate that object naming is based on a series of continuous processing stages and that naming involves increased visual processing relative to recognition tasks. The data can be modelled within an interactive activation and competition framework.
1026	symbolic	2014	Cavanagh, JF; Frank, MJ	Frontal theta as a mechanism for cognitive control	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Recent advancements in cognitive neuroscience have afforded a description of neural responses in terms of latent algorithmic operations. However, the adoption of this approach to human scalp electroencephalography (EEG) has been more limited, despite the ability of this methodology to quantify canonical neuronal processes. Here, we provide evidence that theta band activities over the midfrontal cortex appear to reflect a common computation used for realizing the need for cognitive control. Moreover, by virtue of inherent properties of field oscillations, these theta band processes may be used to communicate this need and subsequently implement such control across disparate brain regions. Thus, frontal theta is a compelling candidate mechanism by which emergent processes, such as 'cognitive control', may be biophysically realized.
1027	symbolic	2005	Goldstone, RL; Janssen, MA	Computational models of collective behavior	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Computational models of human collective behavior offer promise in providing quantitative and empirically verifiable accounts of how individual decisions lead to the emergence of group-level organizations. Agent-based models (ABMs) describe interactions among individual agents and their environment, and provide a process-oriented alternative to descriptive mathematical models. Recent ABMs provide compelling accounts of group pattern formation, contagion and cooperation, and can be used to predict, manipulate and improve upon collective behavior. ABMs overcome an assumption that underlies much of cognitive science-that the individual is the crucial unit of cognition. The alternative advocated here is that individuals participate in collective organizations that they might not understand or even perceive, and that these organizations affect and are affected by individual behavior.
1028	symbolic	2011	Bonawitz, E; Shafto, P; Gweon, H; Goodman, ND; Spelke, E; Schulz, L	The double-edged sword of pedagogy: Instruction limits spontaneous exploration and discovery	COGNITION	Motivated by computational analyses, we look at how teaching affects exploration and discovery. In Experiment 1, we investigated children's exploratory play after an adult pedagogically demonstrated a function of a toy, after an interrupted pedagogical demonstration, after a naive adult demonstrated the function, and at baseline. Preschoolers in the pedagogical condition focused almost exclusively on the target function; by contrast, children in the other conditions explored broadly. In Experiment 2, we show that children restrict their exploration both after direct instruction to themselves and after overhearing direct instruction given to another child; they do not show this constraint after observing direct instruction given to an adult or after observing a non-pedagogical intentional action. We discuss these findings as the result of rational inductive biases. In pedagogical contexts, a teacher's failure to provide evidence for additional functions provides evidence for their absence: such contexts generalize from child to child (because children are likely to have comparable states of knowledge) but not from adult to child. Thus, pedagogy promotes efficient learning but at a cost: children are less likely to perform potentially irrelevant actions but also less likely to discover novel information. (C) 2010 Published by Elsevier B.V.
1029	symbolic	1999	Klahr, D; Simon, HA	Studies of scientific discovery: Complementary approaches and convergent findings	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	This review integrates 4 major approaches to the study of science-historical accounts of scientific discoveries, psychological experiments with nonscientists working on tasks related to scientific discoveries, direct observation of ongoing scientific laboratories, and computational modeling of scientific discovery processes-by viewing them through the lens of the theory of human problem solving. The authors provide a brief justification for the study of scientific discovery, a summary of the major approaches, and criteria for comparing and contrasting them. Then, they apply these criteria to the different approaches and indicate their complementarities. Finally, they provide several examples of convergent principles of the process of scientific discovery.
1030	symbolic	2002	Jones, AD; Cho, RY; Nystrom, LE; Cohen, JD; Braver, TS	A computational model of anterior cingulate function in speeded response tasks: Effects of frequency, sequence, and conflict	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	A growing body of evidence from functional neuroimaging and computational modeling studies indicates that the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) detects the presence of response conflict and conveys this information to other brain regions, enabling subsequent adjustments in cognitive control. The present study examined previous empirical findings of increased ACC for low-frequency stimuli across three distinct speeded response tasks (two-alternative forced choice, go/no-go, and oddball). Simulations conducted in a neural network model incorporating sequential priming mechanisms (developed in Cho et al., 2002) confirmed that a computational measure of response conflict was higher on low-frequency trials across all three tasks. In addition, the model captured detailed aspects of behavioral reaction time and accuracy data, predicted the dynamics of ACC activity related to trial sequence effects, and provided evidence for the functional role of conflict information in performance monitoring and optimization. The results indicate that the conflict-monitoring hypothesis, augmented by mechanisms for encoding stimulus history, can explain key phenomena associated with performance in sequential speeded response tasks.
1031	symbolic	2009	Cohen, MX; Frank, MJ	Neurocomputational models of basal ganglia function in learning, memory and choice	BEHAVIOURAL BRAIN RESEARCH	The basal ganglia (BG) are critical for the coordination of several motor, cognitive, and emotional functions and become dysfunctional in several pathological states ranging from Parkinson's disease to Schizophrenia. Here we review principles developed within a neurocomputational framework of BG and related circuitry which provide insights into their functional roles in behavior. We focus on two classes of models: those that incorporate aspects of biological realism and constrained by functional principles, and more abstract mathematical models focusing on the higher level computational goals of the BG. While the former are arguably more "realistic", the latter have a complementary advantage in being able to describe functional principles of how the system works in a relatively simple set of equations, but are less suited to making specific hypotheses about the roles of specific nuclei and neurophysiological processes. We review the basic architecture and assumptions of these models, their relevance to our understanding of the neurobiological and cognitive functions of the BG, and provide an update on the potential roles of biological details not explicitly incorporated in existing models. Empirical studies ranging from those in transgenic mice to dopaminergic manipulation, deep brain stimulation, and genetics in humans largely support model predictions and provide the basis for further refinement. Finally, we discuss possible future directions and possible ways to integrate different types of models. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1032	symbolic	2006	Wilson, C	Learning phonology with substantive bias: An experimental and computational study of velar palatalization	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	There is an active debate within the field of phonology concerning the cognitive status of substantive phonetic factors such as ease of articulation and perceptual distinctiveness. A new framework is proposed in which substance acts as a bias, or prior, on phonological learning. Two experiments tested this framework with a method in which participants are first provided highly impoverished evidence of a new phonological pattern, and then tested on how they extend this pattern to novel contexts and novel sounds. Participants were found to generalize velar palatalization (e.g., the change from [k] as in keep to [t integral] as in cheap) in a way that accords with linguistic typology, and that is predicted by a cognitive bias in favor of changes that relate perceptually similar sounds. Velar palatalization was extended from the mid front vowel context (i.e., before [e] as in cape) to the high front vowel context (i.e., before [i] as in keep), but not vice versa. The key explanatory notion of perceptual similarity is quantified with a psychological model of categorization, and the substantively biased framework is formalized as a conditional random field. Implications of these results for the debate on substance, theories of phonological generalization, and the formalization of similarity are discussed.
1033	symbolic	2005	Nieuwenhuis, S; Gilzenrat, MS; Holmes, BD; Cohen, JD	The role of the locus coeruleus in mediating the attentional blink: A neurocomputational theory	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	The attentional blink refers to the transient impairment in perceiving the 2nd of 2 targets presented in close temporal proximity. In this article, the authors propose a neurobiological mechanism for this effect. The authors extend a recently developed computational model of the potentiating influence of the locus coeruleus-norepinephrine system on information processing and hypothesize that a reftactoriness in the function of this system may account for the attentional blink. The model accurately simulates the time course of the attentional blink, including Lag 1 sparing. The theory also offers an account of the close relationship of the attentional blink to the electrophysiological P3 component. The authors report results from two behavioral experiments that support a critical prediction of their theory regarding the time course of Lag 1 sparing. Finally, the relationship between the authors' neurocomputational theory and existing cognitive theories of the attentional blink is discussed.
1034	symbolic	2007	Rosenbaum, DA; Cohen, RG; Jax, SA; Weiss, DJ; van der Wel, R	The problem of serial order in behavior: Lashley's legacy	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	In a prescient paper Karl Lashley (1951) rejected reflex chaining accounts of the sequencing of behavior and argued instead for a more cognitive account in which behavioral sequences are typically controlled with central plans. An important feature of such plans, according to Lashley, is that they are hierarchical. Lashley offered several sources of evidence for the hierarchical organization for behavioral plans, and others afterward provided more evidence for this hypothesis. We briefly review that evidence here and then shift from a focus on the structure of plans (Lashley's point of concentration) to the processes by which plans are formed in real time. Two principles emerge from the studies we review. One is that plans are not formed from scratch for each successive movement sequence but instead are formed by making whatever changes are needed to distinguish the movement sequence to be performed next from the movement sequence that has just been performed. This plan-modification view is supported by two phenomena discovered in our laboratory: the parameter remapping effect, and the handpath priming effect. The other principle we review is that even single movements appear to be controlled with hierarchically organized plans. At the top level are the starting and goal postures. At the lower level are the intermediate states comprising the transition from the starting posture to the goal posture. The latter principle is supported by another phenomenon discovered in our lab, the end-state comfort effect, and by a computational model of motor planning which accounts for a large number of motor phenomena. Interestingly, the computational model hearkens back to a classical method of generating cartoon animations that relies on the production of keyframes first and the production of interframes (intermediate frames) second. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1035	symbolic	2005	Uhlhaas, PJ; Silverstein, SM	Perceptual organization in schizophrenia spectrum disorders: Empirical research and theoretical implications	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	The research into perceptual organization in schizophrenia spectrum disorders has found evidence for and against a perceptual organization deficit and has interpreted the data from within several different theoretical frameworks. A synthesis of this evidence, however, reveals that this body of work has produced reliable evidence for deficits in schizophrenia, as well as for the clinical, stimulus, and task parameters associated with normal and abnormal performance. Recent models of cognition have also advanced understanding of the underlying pathophysiological processes of perceptual organization dysfunction in schizophrenia spectrum disorders. These suggest that deficits in perceptual organization may be one manifestation of a wider disturbance in the integration of contextually related information across space and time.
1036	symbolic	2002	Pothos, EM; Chater, N	A simplicity principle in unsupervised human categorization	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We address the problem of predicting how people will spontaneously divide into groups a set of novel items. This is a process akin to perceptual organization. We therefore employ the simplicity principle from perceptual organization to propose a simplicity model of unconstrained spontaneous grouping. The simplicity model predicts that people would prefer the categories for a set of novel items that provide the simplest encoding of these items. Classification predictions are derived from the model without information either about the number of categories sought or information about the distributional properties of the objects to be classified. These features of the simplicity model distinguish it from other models in unsupervised categorization (where, for example, the number of categories sought is determined via a free parameter), and we discuss how these computational differences are related to differences in modeling objectives. The predictions of the simplicity model are validated in four experiments. We also discuss the significance of simplicity in cognitive modeling more generally. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
1037	symbolic	2002	Tyler, LK; deMornay-Davies, P; Anokhina, R; Longworth, C; Randall, B; Marslen-Wilson, WD	Dissociations in processing past tense morphology: Neuropathology and behavioral studies	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Neuropsychological research showing that the regular ("jump-jumped'') and irregular ("drive/drove'') past tense inflectional morphology can dissociate following brain damage has been important in testing claims about the cognitive and neural status of linguistic rules. These dissociations have been interpreted as evidence for two different computational systems-a rule-based system underlying the processing of regulars and the irregulars being individually listed in the mental lexicon. In contrast, connectionist accounts claim that these dissociations can be modeled within a single system. Combining behavioral data from patients with detailed information about their neuropathology can, in principle, provide strong constraints on accounts of the past tense. In this study, we tested five nonfluent aphasic patients, all of whom had extensive left hemisphere (LH) damage involving the left inferior frontal gyrus and underlying structures, and four patients with semantic deficits following herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) who had extensive damage to the inferior temporal cortex. These patients were tested in experiments probing past tense processing. In a large priming study, the nonfluent patients showed no priming for the regular past tense but significant priming for the irregulars (whereas controls show priming for both). In contrast, the HSE patients showed significantly impaired performance for the irregulars in an elicitation task. These patterns of behavioral data and neuropathology suggest that two separable but interdependent systems underlie processing of the regular and irregular past tense.
1038	symbolic	2004	West, R	The effects of aging on controlled attention and conflict processing in the Stroop task	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Recent computational modeling and behavioral work indicate that age-related declines in the ability to represent task context may contribute to disruptions of working memory and selective attention in older adults. However, it is unclear whether age-related declines in context processing arise from a disruption of the encoding or maintenance of task context and how age-related declines in context processing interact with mechanisms supporting conflict detection and resolution processes contributing to efficient selection of task-relevant information. This study examines the effects of aging on the neural correlates of context and conflict processing in the Stroop task using event-related brain potentials (ERPs). Age-related differences in the time course of modulations of the ERPs associated with encoding (P3) and maintaining (slow wave) task context were observed. There were also age-related differences in the N450, conflict SP, and ERN associated with conflict processing that interacted with task context. These data indicate that aging is associated with declines in the efficiency of those neural mechanisms supporting both context and conflict processing, and that the effects of aging are not pervasive but rather interact with task context.
1039	symbolic	1994	KEANE, MT; LEDGEWAY, T; DUFF, S	CONSTRAINTS ON ANALOGICAL MAPPING - A COMPARISON OF 3 MODELS	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Three theories of analogy have been proposed that are supported by computational models and data from experiments on human analogical abilities.  In this article we show how these theories can be unified within a common metatheoretical framework that distinguishes among levels of informational, behavioral, and hardware constraints.  This framework clarifies the distinctions among three computational models in the literature:  the Analogical Constraint Mapping Engine (ACME), the Structure-Mapping Engine (SME), and the Incremental Analogy Machine (IAM).  We then go on to develop a methodology for the comparative testing of these models.  In two different manipulations of an analogical mapping task we compare the results of computational experiments with these these models against the results of psychological experiments.  In the first experiment we show that increasing the number of similar elements in two analogical domains decreases the response time taken to reach the correct mapping for an analogy problem.  In the second psychological experiment we find that the order in which the elements of the two domains are presented has significant facilitative effects on the ease of analogical mapping.  Of the three models, only IAM embodies behavioral constraints and predicts both of these results.  Finally, the immediate implications of these results for analogy research are discussed, along with the wider implications the research has for cognitive science methodology.
1040	symbolic	2012	Frost, R	Towards a universal model of reading	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	In the last decade, reading research has seen a paradigmatic shift. A new wave of computational models of orthographic processing that offer various forms of noisy position or context-sensitive coding have revolutionized the field of visual word recognition. The influx of such models stems mainly from consistent findings, coming mostly from European languages, regarding an apparent insensitivity of skilled readers to letter order. Underlying the current revolution is the theoretical assumption that the insensitivity of readers to letter order reflects the special way in which the human brain encodes the position of letters in printed words. The present article discusses the theoretical shortcomings and misconceptions of this approach to visual word recognition. A systematic review of data obtained from a variety of languages demonstrates that letter-order insensitivity is neither a general property of the cognitive system nor a property of the brain in encoding letters. Rather, it is a variant and idiosyncratic characteristic of some languages, mostly European, reflecting a strategy of optimizing encoding resources, given the specific structure of words. Since the main goal of reading research is to develop theories that describe the fundamental and invariant phenomena of reading across orthographies, an alternative approach to model visual word recognition is offered. The dimensions of a possible universal model of reading, which outlines the common cognitive operations involved in orthographic processing in all writing systems, are discussed.
1041	symbolic	1994	RICKARD, TC; HEALY, AF; BOURNE, LE	ON THE COGNITIVE STRUCTURE OF BASIC ARITHMETIC SKILLS - OPERATION, ORDER, AND SYMBOL TRANSFER EFFECTS	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	In 2 experiments, college Ss practiced extensively on single-digit multiplication and division problems (e.g., }}}} = 6 x 9; 42 = }}}} x 6) and were tested on both practice problems and several altered versions of those problems, which were constructed by changing the required operation, operand order, or arithmetic symbol.  There was strong positive transfer to test problems that had exactly the same elements (the numbers and the required operation) as a practice problem, regardless of whether other factors such as operand order or symbol were changed, but little if any positive transfer to test problems that did not have the same elements as a practice problem.  An identical elements framework is used to interpret these results and implications for existing computational models of arithmetic fact retrieval and for the development of arithmetic skill are discussed.
1042	symbolic	2010	Stocco, A; Lebiere, C; Anderson, JR	Conditional Routing of Information to the Cortex: A Model of the Basal Ganglia's Role in Cognitive Coordination	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The basal ganglia play a central role in cognition and are involved in such general functions as action selection and reinforcement learning. Here, we present a model exploring the hypothesis that the basal ganglia implement a conditional information-routing system. The system directs the transmission of cortical signals between pairs of regions by manipulating separately the selection of sources and destinations of information transfers. We suggest that such a mechanism provides an account for several cognitive functions of the basal ganglia. The model also incorporates a possible mechanism by which subsequent transfers of information control the release of dopamine. This signal is used to produce novel stimulus-response associations by internalizing transferred cortical representations in the striatum. We discuss how the model is related to production systems and cognitive architectures. A series of simulations is presented to illustrate how the model can perform simple stimulus response tasks, develop automatic behaviors, and provide an account of impairments in Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases.
1043	symbolic	2006	Pearce, MT; Wiggins, GA	Expectation in melody: The influence of context and learning	MUSIC PERCEPTION	THE IMPLICATION-REALIZATION (IR) theory (Narmour, 1990) posits two cognitive systems involved in the generation of melodic expectations: The first consists of a limited number of symbolic rules that are held to be innate and universal; the second reflects the top-down influences of acquired stylistic knowledge. Aspects of both systems have been implemented as quantitative models in research which has yielded empirical support for both components of the theory (Cuddy & Lunny, 1995; Krumhansl, 1995a, 1995b; Schellenberg, 1996, 1997). However, there is also evidence that the implemented bottom-up rules constitute too inflexible a model to account for the influence of the musical experience of the listener and the melodic context in which expectations are elicited. A theory is presented, according to which both bottom-up and top-down descriptions of observed patterns of melodic expectation may be accounted for in terms of the induction of statistical regularities in existing musical repertoires. A computational model that embodies this theory is developed and used to reanalyze existing experimental data on melodic expectancy. The results of three experiments with increasingly complex melodic stimuli demonstrate that this model is capable of accounting for listeners' expectations as well as or better than the two-factor model of Schellenberg (1997).
1044	symbolic	2001	Byrne, MD; Anderson, JR	Serial modules in parallel: The psychological refractory period and perfect time-sharing	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The authors describe ACT-R/perceptual-motor (ACT-R/PM), an integrated theory of cognition, perception, and action that consists of the ACT-R production system and a set of perceptual-motor modules. Each module (including cognition) is essentially serial, but modules run in parallel with one another. ACT-R/PM can model simple dual tasks such as the psychological refractory period (PRP), including subtle results previously explained with executive process interactive control (EPIC, D. E. Meyer & D. E. Kieras, 1997a). The central difference between the theories is that EPIC's productions can fire in parallel, whereas in ACT-R/PM, they are serial. Results from three PRP-like experiments with more demanding cognitive requirements indicate that cognitive processing for the 2 tasks need not overlap. ACT-R's activation-based retrieval processes are critical in accounting for the timing of these tasks and for explaining the dual-task performance decrement.
1045	symbolic	2009	Marsella, SC; Gratch, J	EMA: A process model of appraisal dynamics	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	A computational model of emotion must explain both the rapid dynamics of some emotional reactions as well as the slower responses that follow deliberation. This is often addressed by positing multiple levels of appraisal processes such as fast pattern directed vs. slower deliberative appraisals. In our view, this confuses appraisal with inference. Rather, we argue for a single and automatic appraisal process that operates over a person's interpretation of their relationship to the environment. Dynamics arise from perceptual and inferential processes operating on this interpretation (including deliberative and reactive processes). This article discusses current developments in a computational model of emotion processes and illustrates how a single-level model of appraisal obviates a multi-level approach within the context of modeling a naturalistic emotional situation. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1046	symbolic	1995	KRAKAUER, DC	GROUPS CONFUSE PREDATORS BY EXPLOITING PERCEPTUAL BOTTLENECKS - A CONNECTIONIST MODEL OF THE CONFUSION EFFECT	BEHAVIORAL ECOLOGY AND SOCIOBIOLOGY	Aggregation is a well documented behaviour in a number of animal groups. The ''confusion effect'' is one mechanism thought to mitigate the success of predators feeding on gregarious prey and hence favour aggregation. An artificial neural network model of prey targeting is developed to explore the advantages prey species might derive through a tendency to group. The network illustrates how an abstract model of the computational mechanisms mediating the perception of prey position is able to show a degradation in performance as group size increases. The relationship between group size and predator confusion has a characteristic decreasing decelerating shape. Prey ''oddity'' is shown to reduce the impact of the confusion effect, thereby allowing predators to target prey more accurately. Hence shoaling behaviour is most profitable to the prey when prey phenotypes are visually indistinguishable to a predator. Futhermore it is shown that prey ''oddity'' is relatively more costly in large groups than in small groups and the implications for assortative schooling are discussed. Both the model and the results are intended to make the general point that cognitive constraints will limit the information that a nervous system can process at a number of different levels of neural organization.
1047	symbolic	2011	Jepma, M; Nieuwenhuis, S	Pupil Diameter Predicts Changes in the Exploration-Exploitation Trade-off: Evidence for the Adaptive Gain Theory	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	The adaptive regulation of the balance between exploitation and exploration is critical for the optimization of behavioral performance. Animal research and computational modeling have suggested that changes in exploitative versus exploratory control state in response to changes in task utility are mediated by the neuromodulatory locus coeruleus-norepinephrine (LC-NE) system. Recent studies have suggested that utility-driven changes in control state correlate with pupil diameter, and that pupil diameter can be used as an indirect marker of LC activity. We measured participants' pupil diameter while they performed a gambling task with a gradually changing payoff structure. Each choice in this task can be classified as exploitative or exploratory using a computational model of reinforcement learning. We examined the relationship between pupil diameter, task utility, and choice strategy (exploitation vs. exploration), and found that (i) exploratory choices were preceded by a larger baseline pupil diameter than exploitative choices; (ii) individual differences in baseline pupil diameter were predictive of an individual's tendency to explore; and (iii) changes in pupil diameter surrounding the transition between exploitative and exploratory choices correlated with changes in task utility. These findings provide novel evidence that pupil diameter correlates closely with control state, and are consistent with a role for the LC-NE system in the regulation of the exploration-exploitation trade-off in humans.
1048	symbolic	2007	Blais, C; Robidoux, S; Risko, EF; Besner, D	Item-specific adaptation and the conflict-monitoring hypothesis: A computational model	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	M. M. Botvinick, T. S. Braver, D. M. Barch, C. S. Carter, and J. D. Cohen (2001) implemented their conflict-monitoring hypothesis of cognitive control in a series of computational models. The authors of the current article first demonstrate that M. M. Borvinick et al.'s (2001) conflict-monitoring Stroop model fails to simulate L. L. Jacoby, D. S. Lindsay, and S. Hessels's (2003) report of an item-specific proportion-congruent (ISPC) effect in the Stroop task. The authors then implement a variant of M. M. Botvinick et al.'s model based on the assumption that control must be able to operate at the item level. This model successfully simulates the ISPC effect. In addition, the model provides an alternative to M. M. Botvinick et al.'s explanation of the list-level proportion-congruent effect in terms of an ISPC effect. Implications of the present modeling effort are discussed.
1049	symbolic	2007	Brown, JW; Braver, TS	Risk prediction and aversion by anterior cingulate cortex	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	The recently proposed error-likelihood hypothesis suggests that anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and surrounding areas will become active in proportion to the perceived likelihood of an error. The hypothesis was originally derived from a computational model prediction. The same computational model now makes a further prediction that ACC will be sensitive not only to predicted error likelihood, but also to the predicted magnitude of the consequences, should an error occur. The product of error likelihood and predicted error consequence magnitude collectively defines the general "expected risk" of a given behavior in a manner analogous but orthogonal to subjective expected utility theory. New fMRI results from an incentive change signal task now replicate the error-likelihood effect, validate the further predictions of the computational model, and suggest why some segments of the population may fail to show an effor-likelihood effect. In particular, error-likelihood effects and expected risk effects in general indicate greater sensitivity to earlier predictors of errors and are seen in risk-averse but not risk-tolerant individuals. Taken together, the results are consistent with an expected risk model of ACC and suggest that ACC may generally contribute to cognitive control by recruiting brain activity to avoid risk.
1050	symbolic	2008	Moustafa, AA; Sherman, SJ; Frank, MJ	A dopaminergic basis for working memory, learning and attentional shifting in Parkinsonism	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Parkinson's disease (PD) patients exhibit cognitive deficits, including reinforcement learning, working memory (WM) and set shifting. Computational models of the basal ganglia-frontal system posit similar mechanisms for these deficits in terms of reduced dynamic range of striatal dopamine (DA) signals in both medicated and non-medicated states. Here, we report results from the first study that tests PD patients on and off dopaminergic medications in a modified version of the AX continuous performance (AX-CPT) working memory task, consisting of three performance phases and one phase requiring WM associations to be learned via reinforcement feedback. Patients generally showed impairments relative to controls. Medicated patients showed deficits specifically when having to ignore distracting stimuli during the delay. Our models suggest that this impairment is due to medication causing excessive WM updating by enhancing striatal "Go" signals that facilitate such updating, while concurrently suppressing "NoGo" signals. In contrast, patients off medication showed deficits consistent with an overall reduction in striatal DA and associated Go updating signals. Supporting this dichotomy, patients on and off medication both showed attentional shifting deficits, but for different reasons. Deficits in non-medicated patients were consistent with an inability to update the new attentional set, whereas those in medicated patients were evident when having to ignore distractors that had previously been task relevant. Finally, in the feedback-based WM phase, medicated patients were better than unmedicated patients, suggesting a key role of striatal DA in using feedback to update information into WM. These results lend further insight into the role of basal ganglia dopamine in WM and broadly support predictions from neurocomputational models. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
